AdvertisementBy MOTOKO RICH and SU-HYUN LEEMARCH 30, 2018
TOKYO — Cavorting in sparkly miniskirts and midriff-baring tops, the five members of Red Velvet, one of South Korea’s most popular girl bands, belted out one of their hits, “Red Flavor.”“We look good together, we’re pretty cool / I like it, it was love at first sight,” they crooned in Japanese, tossing their long hair and flashing runway-worthy pouts on Thursday night, as 10,000 fans at a Tokyo arena shrieked and waved bright pink light sticks in unison to the hip-hop beat.Yes, but will it play in Pyongyang?On Saturday, Red Velvet, along with 10 other acts from South Korea, will travel to North Korea to perform in concerts staged by Seoul as part of a campaign of cultural diplomacy.It is yet another sign of how the usually reclusive North Korean regime is strategically opening itself to the outside world as it hints it may be willing to roll back its nuclear program.This week Kim Jong-un, the North’s leader, surprised the international community with a stealth visit to Beijing to meet with Xi Jinping, China’s leader. Early this month Mr. Kim issued an audacious invitation to President Trump to meet personally for negotiations. And on Thursday, officials from North and South Korea set a date of April 27 for Mr. Kim to meet with Moon Jae-in, the South’s president.AdvertisementBut before that, the North will welcome the emissaries of K-pop in the first appearance by South Korean artists in the North for more than a decade.AdvertisementThe symbolism of the visit is striking, given that the South Korean military uses K-pop for psychological warfare, blasting it from loudspeakers in the Demilitarized Zone that divides the two countries. Defectors from the North have been known to cite K-pop as one of their inspirations for escaping to the South.It seems odd that the autocratic North Korean regime, which has sought to cut off its citizens from what it calls “decadent capitalism,” is now rolling out the red carpet for these performers.Red Velvet’s concert in Tokyo, attended mostly by teenage girls, was a nonstop cavalcade of overtly consumerist imagery. The singers enacted a pajama party where they tossed popcorn around a bedroom and sucked on pinwheel lollipops. In another scene, they wore candy-colored satin dressing gowns, twirling in chairs designed to look as if they were seated in a nail salon. Twice during the show, the women boarded carts built to look like circus animal cages and rode through the audience.Pyongyang’s apparent openness to the South Korean performers “is part of this charm offensive to make them seem like a really normal country,” said Jieun Baek, a doctoral candidate in public policy at the University of Oxford and the author of “North Korea’s Hidden Revolution.”When K-pop performers went to Pyongyang on several occasions in the early 2000s, the North Korean audiences “pulled faces or were expressionless because they were probably told to react negatively,” said Kang Dong-wan, a professor of North Korean culture and politics at Dong-A University in Busan, South Korea.But now that the North has made dramatic advances in its nuclear program, it may even promote the visit as an achievement.“The propaganda will say, ‘The South Korean artists came because we developed our nuclear weapons, and they are here to celebrate our nuclear development,’” said Shim Jin-sup, a retired psychological warfare officer in the South Korean military.“South Korea is probably being played by Kim Jong-un, but still, there is nothing to lose,” Mr. Shim added. “Such cultural exchanges never hurt South Korea in the past.”AdvertisementAnalysts say the artists will probably give carefully vetted versions of their usual acts.“Everything from their costumes to the choreography will be part of the performance negotiations,” said Darcie Draudt, a nonresident Korean studies fellow at the Honolulu-based Pacific Forum at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.In an interview on Friday in Seoul at the offices of Mystic Entertainment, a talent agency, Choi Jung-in, 37, an R&B vocalist who is joining the Pyongyang tour, said her agents told her South Korean officials had asked her to sing “Uphill Road,” a hit from five years ago, because it “brought solace to people and touched their hearts.”But Ms. Choi said she wasn’t thinking much about how the North Korean audience would respond. “There is no difference between music for propaganda and music for music to enjoy, is there?” she said.Since K-pop performers last went to Pyongyang, North Korean artists themselves have started to emulate their Southern counterparts. North Korea’s Moranbong Band, often said to be Mr. Kim’s favorite girl group, has been known to dance in short skirts and high heels.Still, some South Korean performers were evidently deemed too risqué. Although the South Korean government had hoped to send the global star Psy, the singer of “Gangnam Style,” as part of the traveling troupe, the plan did not materialize. A Seoul television channel, MBC, reported that North Korean officials had rejected Psy from the concert lineup.The concerts are partly a reciprocal gesture from the South after the North sent cheerleaders and a performance troupe to Pyeongchang, South Korea, for the Winter Olympics in February.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Such cultural exchanges “can build trust between the two Koreas that are part of the same race and share the same language,” said Yang Moo-jin, a professor of North Korean studies at Kyungnam University in Seoul and an adviser to the presidential Blue House on the coming summit meeting between Mr. Kim and Mr. Moon.There is no question that a fair bit of propaganda will be involved. According to the South Korean news media, several of the stars going on the trip this week, including some in their 60s, will perform North Korean ballads and other songs invoking peace and reunification.AdvertisementThe audiences for the concerts will consist mostly of elite, loyal cadres unlikely to undergo a sudden ideological conversion under the influence of a few K-pop stars. The South Koreans will perform on Sunday in a theater that holds about 1,500 people, and artists from North and South will perform together in a 10,000-capacity stadium on Tuesday.“The North Korean authorities probably won’t broadcast the South Korean performances in North Korea,” said Mr. Shim, “either intentionally or due to lack of electricity.”On social media in South Korea, fans generally expressed support for the artists’ trip. “If Red Velvet goes to North Korea to perform at a concert, half of its people would cheer and would want to be reunified,” wrote one Twitter user.In Japan, some fans expressed fears for the performers. “Is it a safe country?” a Twitter user wrote. “In North Korea there is only one TV channel and people who listen to K-pop songs are executed, right?”At the concert in Tokyo on Thursday, Rio Kikuchi, 20, a factory inspector from Iwate, said she was a little worried about Red Velvet’s going to North Korea. But Ms. Kikuchi, who feels a vague dread of North Korean missiles aimed toward Japan, said that “if anyone can help achieve peace, they can.”In a brief appearance backstage by the members of Red Velvet, their minders deflected questions.But when a reporter asked if they were looking forward to going to Pyongyang, Kim Yerim, who is known as Yeri, grinned and nodded. “Yes, yes, Pyongyang,” she said, and gave a thumbs-up.Motoko Rich reported from Tokyo, and Su-Hyun Lee from Seoul, South Korea. Hisako Ueno contributed reporting from Tokyo.A version of this article appears in print on March 31, 2018, on Page A7 of the New York edition with the headline: K-Pop Acts Take Show Beyond The Border.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementSupported byLetterTo the Editor:“Defecting From North Korea, Vowing: ‘We Are Ready to Die’ ” (front page, March 26) is a reminder of the unparalleled brutality of the North Korean regime, even as its supreme leader, Kim Jong-un, appears to seek diplomatic glasnost with South Korea, the United States and perhaps China.But he may not be able to keep North Korea’s human rights abuses closed to scrutiny forever.On March 23, the United Nations Human Rights Council extended its mandate on North Korea, calling on its government to shed light on its human rights situation, which the United Nations Commission of Inquiry in 2014 found included “crimes against humanity.”The article correctly pointed out that refugee flows out of North Korea have decreased under Mr. Kim, who has greatly shored up the border through the effective use of informants, intimidation and guards ordered to shoot on sight.As a result, the cost of hiring a broker to facilitate escape into China has risen sharply since the end of 2016.We do not know how successful Mr. Kim will be in his latest maneuvers to seek sanctions relief and thereby secure regime survival for the elite. But what we do know is that most likely Pyongyang will remain unaccountable for the oppression and deprivation of its common citizens.THOMAS BYRNE, NEW YORKThe writer is president of the Korea Society.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS

AdvertisementSupported bylensIntroduction by Alexandra GenovaPhotographs and Text by Tim FrancoThe life of a North Korean defector is brutally carved into two parts: before and after. Those who escape exchange their country’s near-total isolation for the headiness of freedom. But in the process, their history is erased. It was this disordered transition that Tim Franco, a photographer who splits his time between South Korea and China, decided to explore in a new portrait series called “Unperson.” A riff on an Orwellian construct from the novel “1984,” his work examines the “vaporization” of the defectors’ past, which has left many in limbo, free but incomplete. “[North Korea] is their home, they left people behind,” Mr. Franco said. “Even if they live in a modern country, they will never be completely happy in South Korea.” An artist, a concert pianist and a political prison camp guard who is still haunted by his own brutality are among those who sat for Mr. Franco. Their testimonials vary in detail, but most share a shade of regret. Although their stories are impossible to confirm, Mr. Franco thinks that some accounts may be slightly exaggerated — perhaps because stories of defection become currency in South Korea. Fitting into a new society can be painful; distrust and indifference make it difficult to find work. As a result, Mr. Franco said, many defectors are forced to capitalize on their escape by writing books or appearing on TV shows. Mr. Franco translated this exploration of identity into the photographic process itself. Working with an old wooden 4x5 camera, Fuji instant film and a series of chemical procedures, Mr. Franco reclaimed a negative from the developed print, an analog material that is not supposed to exist. It’s a long and risky business that he said echoes the dangerous journey of the North Korean migrant. The result is “uncertain, dirty and imperfect,” with scratches on the surface while the bleaching process creates an eerie green border (that can eat away at the image if applied imprecisely).  “This really fits,” Mr. Franco said. “They feel they will arrive in a perfect world … but far from it.” The following stories are written by the photographer based on interviews with those he photographed, and have been edited for brevity and clarity.One night in 1994, Ahn Myeong-Cheol’s world was flipped upside down. Armed with an AK-47 and a few pistols, and wearing his prison guard uniform, he escaped in a jeep to the Tumen River, which marks the border with China. He swam across the river, getting rid of the weapons that were pulling him down, and half an hour later, he finally reached the Chinese side of the river.Eight years earlier, he had gotten his first job as a guard in a political prison camp. On the first day, he had been told to leave his humanity behind, that all the convicts were traitors or spies for the enemy and that even communicating with them was considered a serious offense. Beatings and killings were routine, and soon enough, he began to practice his taekwondo skills on a few of the convicts. After eight years of service, he discovered his father had committed suicide rather than face the consequences of speaking negatively about the regime. His entire family was then taken away to a detainment camp, and he finally understood why so many families were among the convicts. He decided then that it would be his last night in North Korea.The year 1997 may have been the worst in the North Korean famine. Lee So-yeon had joined the army voluntarily, hoping for a better future, regular meals and a chance to join the Worker’s Party. But she faced a very different reality. The famine had reached deep into the military, and recruits were fed only half-rations mixed with wild grass, while sexual harassment and abuse were a daily threat.After 10 years in the military, she heard about defectors to South Korea and decided to leave. On her first attempt to cross the Tumen River, she was in her underwear, holding her only set of dry clothes above her head with her legs bleeding from the jagged rocks, and she was greeted on the Chinese side by human traffickers. She refused to go with them and was thrown back into the river to be captured again on the North Korean side. After a year in prison, she managed to gather enough tips from fellow inmates to finally make a second, successful attempt.Now living in the South, she still struggles to identify herself to her South Korean neighbors. The prejudice in society, her strong accent and the fear of North Korean spies still make her feel that she has not completely found her place.He wanted to be part of the North Korean elite to date the girl of his dreams, but Choi Seong-Guk was neither rich nor well connected. When South Korean dramas became popular on the North Korean black market, he saw an opportunity. He set up a small portrait studio where customers could replace the actors’ faces on popular forbidden TV drama screen- grabs with their own. This idea proved successful and very lucrative. He soon managed to make enough money to open one of Pyongyang’s first computer rooms. In 2006, he was arrested after smuggling movies. The offense was serious, but some of his customers were influential government officials and he was let off lightly. But he was sent away from the capital, and suddenly, all his work had been for nothing. He would not get the girl of his dreams.This was the moment he decided to defect to the South. Although he left North Korea and the rules of the regime behind, the dating culture in South Korea has proved not so different after all. Park Soo-yeon had been part of the new elite. Between big banquets halls, private hot springs and luxury resorts, her lifestyle differed greatly from what many associate with North Korea. When the first trade routes were opened into the country, she soon got her hands on a videocassette of the South Korean movie “The Green Fish.” She was immediately struck by the sensuality and level of intimacy that could be shown outside her country. She also became fascinated with the diversity of makeup used by South Korean women, especially the dark lipstick worn by the actresses. There was only one color allowed in the North. She realized, however, that by mixing that color with eye-shadow, she could achieve the same tint as in the movie, and the new trend spread quickly among the North Korea elite. But the more movies and dramas she discovered, the more her curiosity grew and the more she longed for the love that she could only glimpse through her television screen.When she defected to the South, she found out for the first time about the hardships and difficulty most North Korean defectors face, and felt so ashamed that she would remain vague about her own story for many years. She is now the owner of a matchmaking company, helping North Korean defectors find love in the South.From a very young age, Han Song-i dreamed of becoming a star. Growing up in the northeast part of North Korea, she could observe China from the other side of the Amnok River. In those regions, North Koreans have greater access to imported goods and Chinese TV channels. This is how she discovered the K-pop phenomenon. At 17, she made up her mind to escape and fulfill her dream. Her family’s wealth made it easy for her to prepare for the trip, and after 10 days on buses, across China, Laos and Thailand, she finally reached Seoul. She found her place, fairly quickly, on a local TV show, in which serious interviews are mixed with entertainment to tell the stories and hardships of life in North Korea. Nowadays, people recognize her in the street and restaurants owners give her free meals. She’s made it.Many North-Korean defectors make a living by telling their stories through TV shows, public talks or books. For Han Song-i, it has caused confusion about her own identity. Her North Korean life is what made her famous — her South Korean passport allowed her to become a star.Born in the North Korean capital, Kim Cheol-woong enjoyed a privileged life. His parents had government positions and his talent for music was recognized from an early age. In 1995, he was even sent to the Moscow State Tchaikovsky Conservatory to study. When he got back to North Korea, he became the youngest musician to join the National Symphony Orchestra.In 2001, Kim Cheol-woong was in love. He planned to use music to propose to his girlfriend, and was practicing a piece by one of his favorite composers, Richard Clayderman. But playing foreign music in North Korea is forbidden, as only official propaganda music is allowed, and it did not take long for someone to report him. He was arrested by the State Security Department and was forced to write a self-criticism letter. The ordeal shifted his perspective, and a few weeks later he crossed the Tumen River into China in search of freedom.As he was being processed through national security after his arrival in South Korea, he began to realize that he had been lucky to have lived as he did in the North and that after this event he would never be able to go back. He leads a less privileged life in the South, and part of him misses his old North Korean life.Follow @nytimesphoto on Twitter. Tim Franco is also on Instagram. You can also find Lens on Facebook and Instagram.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS

AdvertisementBy CHOE SANG-HUNMARCH 31, 2018
SEOUL, South Korea — The United Nations Security Council has announced new measures against North Korea, blacklisting 27 ships, 21 shipping companies and one individual accused of helping the North evade previous sanctions.The move increases pressure on the North ahead of planned summit meetings between its leader, Kim Jong-un, and the presidents of South Korea and the United States.The oil tankers and cargo ships on the list, announced on Friday, were banned from ports worldwide or will have their assets frozen, and the shipping companies will face an asset freeze. Most of those named had also been blacklisted by the United States Treasury in February.In response to North Korea’s rapid acceleration of its nuclear and missile programs, the Security Council has adopted a series of sanctions resolutions in recent years. The toughest, last year, banned key North Korean exports like coal, seafood and textiles, and drastically reduced the amount of petroleum the North was allowed to import.AdvertisementThe North has been accused of using false paperwork to continue coal exports and of importing oil through illegal ship-to-ship transfers on the high seas.Advertisement“The approval of this historic sanctions package is a clear sign that the international community is united in our efforts to keep up maximum pressure on the North Korean regime,” said Nikki R. Haley, the United States ambassador to the United Nations. She said it was the largest-ever such United Nations blacklist targeting the North.The companies blacklisted included 12 based in North Korea, three in Hong Kong and two on the Chinese mainland.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Some analysts said that Mr. Kim’s recent agreement to meet with President Moon Jae-in of South Korea in April and later with President Trump was driven in part by a desire to ease sanctions. But Washington and its allies have vowed to keep up with sanctions until the North commits to denuclearizing.Last week, Mr. Kim made his first foreign trip since taking power six years ago, meeting the Chinese president, Xi Jinping, in Beijing. His country has also refrained from conducting major weapons tests since late November, when it launched an intercontinental ballistic missile that analysts said could be powerful enough to reach the mainland United States.Satellite imagery, however, suggests the country is firing up a new nuclear reactor capable of producing plutonium, one of the main fuels used in nuclear arms, according to a report by Jane’s Intelligence Review and the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University.Mr. Kim kept up his relative diplomatic openness by meeting the president of the International Olympic Committee, Thomas Bach, in Pyongyang on Friday. Mr. Bach said the North Korean leader was committed to having his country participate in the 2020 Summer Olympics in Tokyo and the 2022 Winter Games in Beijing, according to The Associated Press in a dispatch from Pyongyang.The North Korean leader started his diplomatic overtures by sending a delegation to the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, earlier this year.A version of this article appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: U.N. Unveils  A Blacklist To Curtail North Korea.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy CHOE SANG-HUNAPRIL 2, 2018
SEOUL, South Korea — South Korean reporters visiting North Korea’s capital to cover a K-pop performance there received a surprise on Monday: an unusually graceful apology from a senior North Korean official.The official, Kim Yong-chol, a vice chairman of the North’s ruling Workers’ Party, visited the reporters’ hotel and apologized for their having been denied entry to a theater in Pyongyang, the capital, where the North’s leader, Kim Jong-un, watched  South Korean musicians perform Sunday evening.“We invited you and we are obliged to guarantee free coverage,” Kim Yong-chol was quoted in the reporters’ dispatches from Pyongyang as saying. “On behalf of the North’s authorities, I offer an apology and ask for your understanding for the wrong committed.”It is extremely rare for North Korea to offer such a public apology to the South, or, for that matter, to apologize for anything. The rare gesture from a senior official reflected the North’s efforts to work toward a political détente on the Korean Peninsula that Kim Jong-un helped start in February by sending a delegation to the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea.AdvertisementStill, the apology was all the more striking not only because the totalitarian state does not have a free press but also because it came from Kim Yong-chol, an army general considered hard-line even by North Korean standards.AdvertisementHe is widely believed in the South to have masterminded the sinking of a South Korean Navy ship in 2010, when he served as director of the North’s main spy agency. South Korea says a North Korean torpedo attack sank the ship, killing 46 sailors, but the North denies it.On Sunday evening, several South Korean pool reporters were barred by their North Korean minders from entering the concert hall.The South Korean government later lodged a protest. On Monday, Kim Yong-chol explained that the minders had been overruled by Kim Jong-un’s bodyguards. The vice chairman apologized for the lack of coordination between different branches of the Pyongyang government.After North Korea conducted a series of nuclear and missile tests last year that increased tensions, Kim Jong-un has shifted to dialogue in recent months. He has agreed to meet with South Korea’s president, Moon Jae-in, on April 27, and has offered to sit down with President Trump. Mr. Trump has agreed to do so by May, in an attempt to persuade him to give up his nuclear weapons.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In the past week alone, Mr. Kim has stunned the region with his breathtaking pace of diplomacy.Last week, he met President Xi Jinping in Beijing, for his first known trip outside North Korea since he became leader. On Friday, he met with the International Olympic Committee president, Thomas Bach, in Pyongyang. On Sunday, he clapped and laughed while watching South Korean pop singers, whose influence on North Korea’s isolated populace his government has been trying to block. Afterward, he shook hands with each performer and posed for a group photograph.His welcoming of K-pop icons, and Kim Yong-chol’s apology, are a stark departure from just a few years ago, when South Korea began blaring K-pop songs across their shared border as a psychological warfare tactic. The North Korean military warned of an “all-out war” if the South did not turn off its loudspeakers, and it even fired warning shots across the border.In North Korea, all radio and TV channels are controlled by the government and filled with propaganda. The regime has been cracking down on K-pop music that has entered the country via bootleg DVDs from China.But on Sunday, the same day the United States and South Korea started joint annual military drills, which usually draws warlike rhetoric and even missile tests from the North, South Korean K-pop singers were allowed to perform in Pyongyang.On Monday, the North’s official Korean Central News Agency quoted Kim Jong-un as saying that he was “deeply moved to see our people sincerely acclaiming the performance, deepening the understanding of the popular art of the south side.”A version of this article appears in print on April 3, 2018, on Page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: North Korea Offers Regrets For Barring Media at Show.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy CHOE SANG-HUNMARCH 30, 2018
SEOUL, South Korea — South Korea settled disputes with the Trump administration over steel tariffs and the revision of a free-trade agreement this week. With those stumbling blocks cleared, it hoped the two governments could focus on the more pressing crisis of North Korea’s nuclear weapons.As it turned out, South Korea was celebrating too early.On Thursday, President Trump said he might postpone finalizing the trade agreement with South Korea, which he had earlier described as “a wonderful deal with a wonderful ally,” until he secured a deal in denuclearizing North Korea.“You know why?” he said. “Because it’s a very strong card.”By tying a trade deal with South Korea to progress in denuclearizing North Korea, Mr. Trump is showing how little direct leverage Washington has over the isolated, nuclear-armed North just as South Korea and the United States prepare for talks with Kim Jong-un, the North’s leader.Instead, analysts say, Mr. Trump has been left to exert leverage on South Korea, which is taking the lead in orchestrating the talks, and the South’s president, Moon Jae-in.Advertisement“Things are not going as Trump has wished for, so he is twisting South Korea’s arms so that Moon will work for the kind of results Washington wanted when he meets with Kim Jong-un,” said Koh Yu-hwan, a professor of North Korean studies at Dongguk University in Seoul, the South Korean capital. “Like the businessman he is, Trump is telling Moon, ‘I will pay you — when you produce the results.’ ”Mr. Trump’s maneuvers against South Korea have hardened his image as a leader who is ready to threaten or sideline allies in order to push his agenda.AdvertisementPrevious United States administrations used the military alliance that South Korea depends on for its security as leverage in securing American interests in trade and other negotiations, but they did so in low-key negotiations, South Korean officials said. Mr. Trump has made much of that process public.“Trump does not separate security from trade; they are all part of his pack of cards, while Moon tended to see them as separate issues,” said Shim Sang-ryul, a professor of international trade at Kwangwoon University in Seoul.But Mr. Trump’s decision to link the trade deal with South Korea to a breakthrough in denuclearizing North Korea shows a growing unease in Washington, analysts said. Washington fears that Seoul might drift from their alliance and move closer to Beijing, while Mr. Trump feels his approach to North Korea is being undermined in the wake of a flurry of diplomatic initiatives by Mr. Kim in recent weeks, especially his meeting this week with China’s president, Xi Jinping, analysts said. (On Thursday, North Korea released an English-language version of a documentary of the trip.)When Mr. Kim began seeking talks this year after ratcheting up regional tensions with a string of nuclear weapons and intercontinental ballistic missile tests, United States officials argued that he had done so because of pressure from Mr. Trump, including the threat of sanctions.But analysts say that Mr. Kim had already been planning to seek talks at the end of a hurried effort to complete what he called “a state nuclear force” last year. Analysts say his goal was to enter negotiations with Washington with a much stronger hand than his father and predecessor, Kim Jong-il, had in the 1990s and 2000s.Adding to that, Mr. Kim’s decision to travel to Beijing to meet with Mr. Xi before his planned summit meetings with the South Korean and American presidents was a brilliant maneuver, analysts said.AdvertisementBy choosing Beijing for his first trip abroad as leader, Mr. Kim recommitted North Korea to the traditional — yet much frayed — Communist alliance with China. At the same time, Mr. Kim’s visit helped China reassert its role in diplomacy around denuclearizing North Korea, a process that has been dominated by South Korea and the United States in recent months. If China’s role on the Korean Peninsula grows bigger, it strengthens North Korea’s leverage in talks and helps China as well if a trade war with the United States comes to pass, said Professor Shim.Mr. Kim’s meeting with Mr. Xi has already complicated Mr. Trump’s calculations.China’s state news media reported that Mr. Kim had called for “phased, synchronized” moves toward denuclearizing his country — the same approach the North insisted on in past negotiations with Washington. In those talks, the North said it would take only incremental steps toward giving up its nuclear program, beginning with a freeze, and demanded that the United States offer simultaneous incentives. Those past discussions all eventually collapsed as Washington and Pyongyang accused each other of reneging on agreements.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Kim’s call for a phased approach raised the possibility of drawn out and uncertain negotiations, dimming the hopes for the so-called Libyan model of rapid dismantlement, which Mr. Trump and his new pick for national security adviser, John R. Bolton, prefer.A key problem for Mr. Trump is that South Korea sides with China in arguing that the Libyan model is unrealistic, championing an “action-for-action” phased approach for denuclearization. When Mr. Xi’s envoy, Yang Jiechi, visited Seoul this week, South Korea and China agreed to cooperate for a peaceful resolution of the North Korean crisis. On Friday, a senior aide for Mr. Moon told reporters that the North’s nuclear weapons program, which has been developing over the past 25 years, could not be dismantled “like you turn off your TV by pulling out the electricity cord.”Lee Jong-seok, a former South Korean unification minister, said, “The key will be how to persuade North Korea to take a couple or few early concrete steps early — for instance, measures concerning its nuclear test site or its ICBM production facilities — that would help convince the Americans that it is sincere about denuclearization.”We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementSupported byEditorialBy The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the op-ed section.As he prepares for possible talks with the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un about controlling the North’s nuclear weapons program, President Trump is facing his most complicated national security challenge so far. He has made the task far harder by threatening to blow up the only other recent deal to control a nuclear program, with Iran.After decades of effort, Iran was close to producing enough enriched uranium for a nuclear bomb when it reached the deal with the major powers in 2015.Iran gave away about 97 percent of its low-enriched uranium, destroyed 13,000 of its 19,000 centrifuges and pledged to incapacitate a heavy-water facility intended to produce weapons-grade plutonium.If Iran tries to cheat, the most rigorous technological verification system in the world can detect the violations and alert the world in time to intervene. The International Atomic Energy Agency, which monitors the agreement, has repeatedly found Iran in compliance; scores of experts, including American diplomats and military officers, have affirmed the deal’s efficacy. Israel’s army chief of staff, Lt. Gen. Gadi Eisenkot, told Haaretz on Friday that the deal has delayed the “Iranian nuclear vision by 10 to 15 years.”Although Iran never had a nuclear weapon, the agreement required months of talks and two years of technical and political negotiations. Now consider North Korea, with 20 to 60 nuclear weapons, and facilities for producing plutonium and enriching uranium, many of which are hidden.Mr. Trump has insisted on the North’s complete and verifiable denuclearization. And, by all indications, he wants it done immediately. Yet by threatening to abrogate the Iran deal and reimpose sanctions Mr. Trump has added to the challenge of making that happen.He has claimed, without a shred of evidence, that Iran is out of compliance, and has complained that Iran is still building ballistic missiles, arming Hezbollah and supporting President Bashar al-Assad of Syria. None of these concerns were supposed to be prevented by the deal.He has demanded that Britain, France and Germany fix what he calls “flaws” in the pact by May 12, presumably so he will have someone else to blame when it falls apart.The president, and his new hard-line team of national security advisers, may think that walking away from the Iran deal will persuade Mr. Kim of his toughness and his determination to secure terms that go far beyond those reached with Iran. More likely, Mr. Kim will see it as proof that the United States cannot be trusted to stick to its commitments and will be reluctant to reach any agreement.Persuading a country to give up weapons is never easy. The North Koreans have said they need nuclear weapons to deter American aggression. And Mr. Kim has set the pace for most of the recent diplomacy — including his surprise invitation to Mr. Trump and his visit with President Xi Jinping in China. That said, he reportedly told China and South Korea he will discuss “denuclearization” with the Americans.Denuclearization has had some successes. After Ukraine, Kazakhstan and Belarus inherited thousands of nuclear weapons when the Soviet Union collapsed, the United States persuaded them to transfer the devices to Russia. South Africa had about a half-dozen warheads but gave them up after the end of apartheid. Libya shed its rudimentary nuclear program under pressure from Britain and the United States after the Iraq war.And in 1994, most likely before North Korea had any nuclear weapons, a limited agreement with the United States froze the North’s plutonium program for about eight years until it fell apart under President George W. Bush.A serious negotiation with North Korea would include Mr. Trump pressing Mr. Kim to freeze nuclear and missile testing, halt the production of nuclear weapons fuel and the deployment of nuclear weapons and put an Iran-like verification system in place. But why would Mr. Kim agree to any of that if the Americans walk away from the Iran deal? Why would Mr. Kim, or any future adversary for that matter, assume Mr. Trump is negotiating in good faith?The Iran deal has achieved what it was intended to do — limit Iran’s nuclear program. There is still hope that something similar can be achieved in North Korea. Indeed, Mr. Trump could contribute in an unprecedented way to international peace and security by engaging with Mr. Kim. That possibility will be squandered, though, if the American president escalates a manufactured nuclear crisis with Iran at the very time he is trying to defuse one with North Korea.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS

AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 5, 2018, 2:49 A.M. E.D.T.
SOUTHERN JILIN PROVINCE, China —  To the North Koreans gathered beneath a crucifix in an apartment in this northeastern Chinese border region, she is known as "mom." She feeds them, gives them a place to stay and, on occasion, money.In return, the 69-year-old Korean-Chinese woman asks them to study the Bible, pray and sing hymns. She also has a more ambitious, and potentially dangerous, goal: She wants the most trusted of her converts to return to North Korea and spread Christianity there.Along the North Korean border, dozens of such missionaries are engaged in work that puts them and their North Korean converts in danger. Most are South Koreans, but others, like the woman, are ethnic Koreans whose families have lived in China for generations. In recent years, 10 such front-line missionaries and pastors have died mysteriously, according to the Rev. Kim Kyou Ho, head of the Seoul-based Chosen People Network, a Christian group that runs a memorial hall in the South Korean capital for the victims. North Korea is suspected in all those deaths.Hundreds of other missionaries have been imprisoned or expelled by China, which bans foreigners from proselytizing.AdvertisementIt is perilous work. Li Baiguang, a Chinese human rights lawyer whose work defending Christian pastors and farmers had prompted repeated death threats, died on Feb. 26, hours after being admitted to a Chinese military hospital for what his relatives described as a minor stomach ailment.AdvertisementThe case has prompted calls for an independent investigation from Amnesty International and the Washington-based National Endowment for Democracy, which noted Li had been "detained and physically attacked many times" for his work and cited reports he had recently appeared to be in good health.The Korean-Chinese woman said she is monitored by both North Korean and Chinese authorities, yet, despite the risks, has carried out 20 years of missionary work with North Koreans, mostly women who are in China legally after being granted visas to visit relatives living there."I always pray and I'm with God, so I'm not worried," said the woman, who despite that assertion asked that her name not be published because of safety concerns for herself, her family and the North Koreans to whom she ministers.She lives so close to North Korea that it is common to see women doing laundry on the other side of the Yalu River or workers riding bicycles past rundown North Korean buildings just a stone's throw away.The border missionaries provide their North Korean visitors with room and board, and those escaping with places to hide. In return, they ask them to memorize the Lord's Prayer, the Apostles' Creed and other prayers. Some of the most trusted converts return home to North Korea and covertly share what they've learned, sometimes carrying Bibles.It's almost impossible to determine what happens when those North Koreans return home to evangelize. From the outside, there is no indication that Christianity has grown in any serious manner in the North in recent years, let alone that it's helping shake North Korean leader Kim Jong Un's power.The North accuses South Korea's spy agency of using missionaries to gather information about North Korea's secretive nuclear program and other sensitive topics, as well as to smuggle propaganda materials via leaflets, CDs and USB sticks, and to build underground churches to undermine Kim's leadership — allegations the Seoul government strongly denies.AdvertisementAt least two South Korean pastors are detained in the North on such charges.Officially, North Korea says it guarantees freedom of religion to its 24 million people. But in reality, people involved in Bible distribution, secret prayer services and underground church networks are imprisoned or executed, according to activists and defectors. The North has five government-sanctioned churches in Pyongyang, but critics say they are showpiece facilities opened only for foreign visitors.Among the missionaries and pastors killed under mysterious circumstances in recent years is the Rev. Han Chung-ryeol, a Chinese pastor of Korean descent who headed a front-line church in the Chinese border town of Changbai before he was found dead of multiple stab wounds and a punctured skull in April 2016, raising suspicions that North Korea was involved.Chinese police recently told his family that surveillance video had captured images of three men and a woman suspected of being North Korean agents crossing the border before and after the 49-year-old pastor's slaying, Han's sister, Han Songshi, told The Associated Press.  She said Chinese authorities told the family the North didn't respond to Chinese requests to extradite the suspects.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.North Korea instead sent a letter to the state religious affairs bureau in Changbai saying it had arrested one of Han's church deacons, Zhang Wenshi, and sentenced him to 15 years hard labor, according to two people with direct knowledge of the case who spoke on condition of anonymity, fearing retribution from North Korea and China.In a copy of the letter seen by the AP, North Korea accused Zhang of conspiring with Han in a plot to evangelize North Koreans, smuggle them out of the country and subvert the North's government. But the letter stopped short of acknowledging that North Korean agents killed Han.A spokeswoman for the Changbai police department would not confirm the family's account, saying only: "We have no obligation to release the details of the investigation to the media." A state-run North Korean website denied any involvement in Han's slaying, accusing South Korea's then-conservative government of being behind a scheme to foster anti-Pyongyang sentiment.Though Han was little known to international media before his death, he was an important figure in the risky, covert work to promote Christianity in the North, which views such efforts as a Western-led plot to topple its government. At the Chinese government-registered church in Changbai where he had worked since the early 1990s, he fed and sheltered thousands of North Koreans over the years — many of whom had fled their famine-stricken country in search of food and jobs — while also converting hundreds of them to Christianity.Eric Foley, the American co-founder of Voice of the Martyrs Korea, a Seoul-based Christian nonprofit group that provided funding, Bibles and other resources for Han's work, said he believed the Chinese authorities looked the other way about Han's proselytizing because they considered his charitable work to be a "social service" that helped allay potential problems like crime, unemployment and homelessness among the North Koreans in Changbai."That allowed him to do that work in a level of volume that was unparalleled up and down the border," Foley said. He insisted, however, that Han did not facilitate defections of North Koreans to South Korea, which is banned by China.AdvertisementHowever, seven other defectors and activists interviewed by the AP said Han did sometimes help North Korean defectors flee to South Korea, though he was reluctant to do so for fear of angering the Chinese authorities and imperiling the work of his church. Choi Sung-ryong, a Seoul-based activist, said he resettled 10 North Koreans in South Korea at the request of one of Han's deacons.When one of his converts volunteered to return to North Korea to share the "love of God" with her countrymen in 2011, the woman said Han smiled at her, asked her to memorize as many Bible phrases as possible and gave her 5,000 yuan ($800) to buy a house in the North that she could use as a gathering place for underground Christians."He told me that house would be a church or a place for God," said the North Korean woman, who has since defected to South Korea and spoke on condition of anonymity because of concerns for the safety of her relatives in the North.As a result of his risky work, North Korean defectors, including the woman, had long warned Han that the Pyongyang authorities had him on the country's most-wanted list. Han knew he was "at the top of a blacklist by the North's Ministry of State Security," the North Korean woman said.The Rev. John Kim, a defector who is now a pastor in Seoul, said he was questioned about Han as far back as 2003 when he slipped back into North Korea to try to spread the Gospel. Soldiers approached him as he was doing laundry at a river and "they asked me whether I knew a bastard named Han Chung-ryeol," said Kim. "So I asked them who he was, and they said they had to arrest him."As for the congregants Han left behind, their sentiments are reflected in the message on a banner they hung on the front gate of their red-brick church in Changbai: "Martyr and pastor, Han Chung-ryeol is our pride!"___Shih reported from Beijing.___We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 2, 2018, 8:36 A.M. E.D.T.
TOKYO —  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said Monday he plans to visit the U.S. this month to discuss North Korea with President Donald Trump ahead of expected summits between the North and the U.S. and South Korea.Abe said he will travel to the U.S. from April 17 to 20 and hold two days of talks with Trump at the president's Mar-a-Lago Club in Florida to discuss North Korea and bilateral issues. Trump has said he will meet North Korean leader Kim Jong Un by the end of May."I hope to thoroughly discuss North Korea and other issues of mutual interest between Japan and the U.S.," Abe said at a meeting of representatives of his ruling coalition and the government.In Washington, the White House said the meeting between the two leaders will "reaffirm the United States-Japan alliance as a cornerstone of peace, stability, and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region." Besides North Korea, they will "explore ways to expand fair and reciprocal trade and investment ties," it said.AdvertisementAbe has said he wants to remind Trump of shorter-range missiles and other North Korean security threats for Japan, and seek U.S. help on the issue of Japanese abducted by North Korea decades ago.AdvertisementAbe is also expected to discuss stiff U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum imports and urge Trump to exclude Japan, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told reporters.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The abductees' families last Friday urged Abe to seek Trump's help, saying this could be their last chance to win their aging loved ones' release.Japan has said North Korea abducted at least 17 Japanese citizens in the 1970s and 1980s to train agents in Japanese language and culture to spy on South Korea. North Korea, after years of denials, acknowledged in 2002 abducting 13 Japanese. It allowed five of them to visit Japan later that year — and they stayed — but said the other eight had died, though their families say the North's comments cannot be trusted.Abe visited Trump's resort in February 2017, soon after the president took office.___Associated Press writer Catherine Lucey in Washington contributed to this report.___Find her work at https://www.apnews.com/search/mari%20yamaguchiWe’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy REUTERSAPRIL 6, 2018, 1:43 A.M. E.D.T.
BEIJING —  The Chinese government's top diplomat hopes that planned summits between North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and the presidents of South Korea and the United States will "take the fuse" out of the situation on the Korean peninsula.After a meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov in Moscow, China's State Councillor Wang Yi said he hoped the summits would bring the issue of North Korea's nuclear program back into the realm of dialogue and negotiations."We all welcome and support the apparent improvement in the situation on the peninsula and appreciate the efforts of all parties," Wang, who is also China's foreign minister, said on Thursday, in comments posted on his ministry's website.He hoped the three leaders would take the opportunity to completely defuse the situation, he added.South Korean President Moon Jae-in and U.S. President Donald Trump have both agreed to meet Kim. Trump has traded barbs with the North Korean leader for much of his time in office as Pyongyang pursues development of nuclear weapons capable of hitting the United States.AdvertisementNorth Korea was "suffocating" under international sanctions,  Nikki Haley, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, said on Thursday, adding, "They need an out."AdvertisementSpeaking at Duke University in North Carolina, Haley said, "When the president ends up speaking with Kim, the conversation has to be about denuclearizing. Not some of it, all of it. We don't want an irresponsible actor to have nuclear weapons."She added, "But we're going into this very cautiously, very much knowing that he's looked at the Iran deal, he's seen what he can get and he's seen how he can push through loopholes, and we're not going to let that happen again."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Last month, China said it won a pledge from Kim, who was on a surprise visit to Beijing for talks with Chinese President Xi Jinping, to denuclearize the Korean peninsula.China and Russia are both permanent members of the United Nations Security Council, which has imposed sanctions on North Korea in a bid to force negotiations with Pyongyang.Tension on the peninsula has eased following a flurry of diplomatic activity in the lead-up to February's Winter Olympics held in South Korea.North and South Korea have agreed to hold their first summit in more than a decade on April 27, while Trump has said he would meet Kim by the end of May.Trump has threatened to withdraw the United States from an accord between Tehran and six world powers, signed in 2015 before he took office, unless France, Britain and Germany help to agree a follow-up pact by that date. Trump does not like the deal's limited duration, among other things.(Reporting by Tom Daly and Min Zhang; Additional reporting by Michelle Nichols at the United Nations; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 31, 2018, 2:32 A.M. E.D.T.
BEIJING —  North Korea will take part in the next two Olympic Games in Japan and China, International Olympic Committee President Thomas Bach said on Saturday after meeting North Korean leader Kim Jong Un in Pyongyang.Bach travelled to Pyongyang on Thursday in a visit that comes after North Korea's participation in the Pyeongchang Winter Games helped ease tensions over the Korean peninsula.Speaking to reporters at Beijing airport upon his return, Bach said North Korea will participate in the 2020 Summer Games in Tokyo and the 2022 Winter Games in Beijing."This commitment was fully supported by the supreme leader of the DPRK in a very open and fruitful discussion I had with him yesterday," Bach said, using the country's formal name, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.Advertisement"The IOC will make a proposal for a potential joint march or potential other joint activities for Tokyo and then maybe also for Beijing at the appropriate time," he added.AdvertisementThe North's official Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) said Bach told Kim the trip was to "express the most heartfelt thanks" to North Korea's leader for helping make February's the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics a Games that were "symbolic of peace."Athletes from North and South Korea marched under a unified peninsula flag at the opening ceremony in Pyeongchang, and the two Koreas have seen a significant thaw in tensions since.KCNA said Kim expressed thanks for the IOC's support and for cooperating with North Korea "regardless of any political climate and conditions".Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.He said he hoped that the IOC's relationship with the North's Olympic Committee would continue to develop favourably and expected cooperation in developing and improving sport in North Korea, the report added.An official from South Korea's Unification Ministry said it was aware of the KCNA's report but declined to comment further.Bach had accepted North Korea's invitation in February, and told Reuters at the time that he saw sports as a way to reduce political tensions.After Kim made a surprise trip this week to Beijing to meet with Chinese President Xi Jinping, his engagement with the international community has sparked speculation he may try to meet other leaders ahead of summits with South Korean President Moon Jae-in and United States President Donald Trump.The two Koreas have experienced a significant easing in tensions since the Winter Olympics in South Korea in February, leading them to set a date to hold their first summit in more than a decade on April 27.(Reporting by Heekyong Yang; Additional reporting by Joori Roh; Writing by Ben Blanchard; Editing by Peter Rutherford and Kim Coghill)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy REUTERSAPRIL 3, 2018, 9:58 P.M. E.D.T.
BEIJING —  China appreciates North Korea's "important efforts" to ease tension on the Korean peninsula, senior Chinese diplomat Wang Yi told the North's foreign minister on Tuesday, hours after he called on all sides to stay focussed on talks.China has traditionally been secretive North Korea's closest ally, though ties had been frayed by North Korean leader Kim Jong Un's pursuit of nuclear weapons and missiles and Beijing's backing of tough U.N. sanctions in response.But in late March Beijing vowed to uphold its friendship with its isolated neighbour and won a pledge from Kim to denuclearise the peninsula during a meeting with President Xi Jinping.China's Foreign Ministry gave only hours notice that Wang, a State Councillor and China's Foreign Minister, would meet North Korean Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho.AdvertisementWang told Ri that Xi and Kim had reached an important consensus on achieving a peaceful resolution to the peninsula nuclear issue during Kim's visit to Beijing, his first known trip outside North Korea since he assumed power in 2011.Advertisement"China appreciates North Korea's position working towards denuclearisation of the peninsula and its important efforts to ease the situation on the peninsula, and supports meetings between the leaders of the North and South and between the North and the United States," Wang said, according to a Chinese Foreign Ministry statement.The ministry cited Ri as saying that North Korea would "maintain close strategic communications" with China on peninsula-related issues, and that the Kim-Xi meeting was an "important juncture" in the development of bilateral relations.North Korea's official news agency KCNA had said that a delegation headed by Ri left on Tuesday to meet other foreign ministers in Azerbaijan and to visit Russia, but made no mention of China."DISRUPTIVE FACTORS"Earlier in the day, Wang said during a joint news briefing with visiting Swiss Foreign Minister Ignazio Cassis that he hoped a planned meeting in May between Kim and U.S. President Donald Trump would "increase mutual understanding"."But historical experience tells us that at the moment of easing of the situation on the peninsula and as first light dawns on peace and dialogue, frequently all manner of disruptive factors emerge," Wang said."So we call on all sides to maintain focus, eliminate interference, and firmly follow the correct path of dialogue and negotiation."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Cassis said that he would discuss with Wang the role that Switzerland could play in the strategic meetings between Kim and "some important partners on the international level", but he did not elaborate.A time and place have not been set for the Trump-Kim meeting to discuss denuclearisation. North and South Korea will hold their first summit in more than a decade on April 27, South Korea has said.AdvertisementKim's predecessors, grandfather Kim Il Sung and father Kim Jong Il, both promised not to pursue nuclear weapons but secretly maintained programmes to develop them, culminating in the North's first nuclear test in 2006 under Kim Jong Il.North Korea has said in previous, failed talks aimed at dismantling its nuclear programme that it could consider giving up its arsenal if the United States removed its troops from South Korea and withdrew its so-called nuclear umbrella of deterrence from South Korea and Japan.Some analysts have said Trump's willingness to meet Kim handed Pyongyang a diplomatic win, as the United States had insisted for years that any such summit be preceded by North Korean steps to denuclearise.China had largely sat on the sidelines as North Korea improved relations with South Korea, raising worries in Beijing that it was no longer a central player in the North Korean issue.The two Koreas have seen a significant thaw in ties since the North's participation in the South's Winter Olympics in February.Kim Jong Un and his wife on Sunday made a surprise appearance at the first of two concerts performed by a South Korean art troupe this week in Pyongyang, titled "Spring is Coming".Kim proposed another concert in South Korea later this year with performers from the North in response to this week's shows in Pyongyang by K-pop artists, South Korea's Culture Minister Do Jong-whan told reporters in Seoul.It was the first time a North Korean leader had attended a South Korean performance in the capital.(Reporting by Michael Martina and Heekyong Yang; Additional reporting by Christian Shepherd and Dominique Patton in Beijing; Editing by Nick Macfie)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 1:33 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina said he's glad John Bolton will serve as President Donald Trump's national security adviser going into talks with North Korea because of his "very healthy skepticism."A U.S.-North Korean summit is slated for May. Hopes have been raised that Kim Jong Un  may be willing to discuss his nuclear weapons program and other measures to reduce the threat of war, possibly in exchange for security guarantees and an easing of the international sanctions that have severely pinched the already struggling North Korean economy.Graham said he had dinner with Bolton a couple of nights ago and the hawkish former ambassador to the U.N. expressed fears that North Korea is "just buying time" as it seeks to develop a nuclear-armed missile."He sees these negotiations as a way of buying time. That's what they've done in the past," said Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee.AdvertisementBolton replaces Army Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster on April 9.Graham said he would be skeptical about the terms and conditions of the summit, but he does hope the president will meet with the North Korean leader. He called for negotiations that are "very focused and get quick action."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."We don't want to give him nine months or a year to talk and build a missile at the same time," Graham said on "Fox News Sunday."AdvertisementAt the same time, Graham warned Trump not to remove troops from Syria. Trump declared earlier this week: "Let the other people take care of it now."Graham said that leaving Syria would allow the Islamic State group to strengthen, the fighting between the Syrian Kurdish militia and Turkey would get out of hand, and Russia and Iran would go on to dominate Syria."It would be the single worst decision the president could make," Graham said.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 5:23 P.M. E.D.T.
UNITED NATIONS —  The United Nations Security Council blacklisted dozens of ships and shipping companies on Friday over oil and coal smuggling by North Korea, boosting pressure on Pyongyang as leader Kim Jong Un plans to meet with his South Korean and U.S. counterparts.The council's North Korea sanctions committee acted on a request by the United States, designating 21 shipping companies -- including five based in China -- 15 North Korean ships, 12 non-North Korean ships and a Taiwanese man.The move comes days after Kim met Chinese President Xi Jinping and an announcement that the North Korean leader would meet South Korean President Moon Jae-in on April 27. He is also  scheduled to meet U.S. President Donald Trump some time in May.While Trump has agreed to meet Kim, he tweeted on Wednesday that "maximum sanctions and pressure must be maintained."AdvertisementTension over North Korea's tests of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles surged last year and raised fears of U.S. military action in response to the North's threat to develop a nuclear weapon capable of hitting the U.S. mainland.AdvertisementBut the situation has eased significantly since North Korea sent athletes to the Winter Olympics in South Korea in February.U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley said the U.N. sanctions designations -- the largest agreed by the council's committee -- were aimed at shutting down North Korea's illegal smuggling activities to obtain oil and sell coal."The approval of this historic sanctions package is a clear sign that the international community is united in our efforts to keep up maximum pressure on the North Korean regime," she said in a statement.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The list was part of a request by Washington late last month for 33 ships, 27 shipping companies and the Taiwanese man to be sanctioned. China delayed that bid on March 2, but did not give a reason. The 15-member committee works by consensus.Washington then proposed a shortened list on Thursday, which was unanimously agreed by the committee on Friday.The 12 non-North Korea ships are now subjected to a global port ban and must be deregistered, while the 15 North Korean ships are subjected to an asset freeze and 13 of those a global port ban.The Taiwanese man, Tsang Yung Yuan, is accused of coordinating "North Korean coal exports with a North Korean broker operating in a third country, and he has a history of other sanctions evasion activities," according to the U.N. listing. He is subjected to an asset freeze and travel ban.The assets of the 21 shipping companies, which include businesses based in the Marshall Islands, Singapore, Panama and Samoa, must now be frozen.The U.N. Security Council has unanimously boosted sanctions on North Korea since 2006 in a bid to choke off funding for Pyongyang's nuclear and ballistic missile programs, banning exports including coal, iron, lead, textiles and seafood, and capping imports of crude oil and refined petroleum products.Advertisement(Reporting by Michelle Nichols; Editing by Sandra Maler)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 31, 2018, 3:35 A.M. E.D.T.
HONG KONG —  Jorn Andersen says he accomplished all of his goals as coach of North Korea's national soccer team but economic hardships have made it impossible for him to stay on in the country.The Norwegian, whose contract expires on Saturday, was appointed in May 2016 and took charge of his last game on Tuesday when he steered his team to a victory over Hong Kong that booked their spot in next year's Asian Cup finals."I don't want to stay," he said."It was interesting and I learned a lot and experienced many things, but the economic situation is not so good so it's not possible to stay."After two years I want to take the next step and hopefully stay in Asia."The U.N. Security Council has unanimously boosted sanctions on North Korea since 2006 in a bid to choke off funding for Pyongyang's nuclear and ballistic missile programs, banning exports including coal, iron, lead, textiles and seafood, and capping imports of crude oil and refined petroleum products.AdvertisementThe sanctions have had a major impact, with the North's sporting organizations also affected.In December, Andersen led his team to the finals of the East Asian Championships in Japan but organizers said they were unable to award any prize money to the North Koreans due to economic sanctions.AdvertisementWhile Andersen's team finished fourth in the men's competition, North Korea's women won their tournament, only for the national association to miss out on a $70,000 payday.Despite the issues, Andersen said he improved the fortunes of the squad during his stay in Pyongyang."The team now is stronger and we have seen that in the last game here and in Japan against the strongest teams at the end of last year," he said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."When I came here I was given two targets, to qualify for the East Asian Championships in Japan last year and after that to qualify for the Asian Cup."There was also a third, which was to change the playing style of the team. When I came here they only played long balls and running and fighting without tactics."Now we are playing football, we are advancing and tactically we are good. That is for me the most important point."After his two-year stint in Asia, the former Mainz and Karlsruher coach is returning to Germany but says he would be keen to return to the region to work in the future."I've got some offers for my next job but I haven't decided where I want to go," he said."I'm still open to ideas. I learned a lot and I like working in Asia."I've worked here for two years and there have been good developments for the team."(Editing by Peter Rutherford)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy CHARLES McDERMIDAPRIL 2, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. The world’s first law against “fake news,” an unexpected apology from Pyongyang and the rise and fall of Australia’s top cricketer. Here’s what you need to know:• “Cooperation is the only correct choice.”That’s what China said it was pressing for when it hit back at President Trump’s tariffs on steel and aluminum with its own — as high as 25 percent in some cases — on 128 American products, including pork and seamless steel pipes.The retaliation was no surprise, but Beijing appeared to go beyond its initial threat to impose the tariffs in two stages.They all took effect on Monday, including the 25 percent charge on pork, an important moneymaker in states that voted for Mr. Trump. Stocks in the U.S. fell sharply.AdvertisementAbove, Mr. Trump and Melania Trump on Monday at the 140th Annual White House Easter Egg Roll._____• It is extremely rare for North Korea to offer such a public apology to the South, or, for that matter, to apologize for anything.AdvertisementBut, in a measure of the North’s drive for détente, South Korean reporters in Pyongyang received a remarkably graceful mea culpa after they were denied entry to a K-pop concert attended by Kim Jong-un, the North’s leader.“We invited you and we are obliged to guarantee free coverage,” a senior North Korean official was quoted as saying. “I offer an apology and ask for your understanding for the wrong committed.”_____• The world’s first ban on “fake news.”The lower house of Malaysia’s Parliament passed a bill that allows for up to six years in prison for publishing or circulating misleading information, and its Senate is expected to rapidly follow suit.Critics say the law is intended to stifle dissent before elections.In the U.S., dozens of local TV anchors gave the same speech denouncing fake news recently. It turned out they were doing a “forced read” of a corporate script from the country’s largest broadcaster, Sinclair._____• British officials believe an assassin smeared a Soviet-developed nerve agent on a door handle at the home of a former Russian double agent, suggesting a high-level plot hatched by the Kremlin.Since the nerve agent, Novichok, is so potent and dangerous, the British authorities suspect that only a highly trained professional — on orders from the highest levels of the Russian government — could have carried out the attack._____• “Charming, intelligent, complex, fiery and eloquent.”Our esteemed former international correspondent wrote that in his obituary of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, a leader in South Africa’s fight against apartheid, known to most of the world through her marriage to Nelson Mandela.AdvertisementShe died early Monday at the age of 81.“In time,” he wrote, “her reputation became scarred by accusations of extreme brutality toward suspected turncoats, misbehavior and indiscretion in her private life, and a radicalism that seemed at odds with Mr. Mandela’s quest for racial inclusiveness.”• Shares of Tesla slid 5.1 percent, amid concerns about the electric-car maker’s quarterly production numbers for its Model 3 sedan, which are expected in the next day or so. Elon Musk, Tesla’s chief executive, joked about the company’s financial woes on Twitter on Sunday. The stock’s performance on Monday suggested investors were not amused.• Spotify, the Swedish music-streaming giant, begins trading today with a valuation that could exceed $20 billion. Instead of an initial public offering, it’s using the rare and potentially risky process known as a direct listing: No new stock is issued, and insiders can begin selling their stash on Day 1.• The Final Four of student debt: In the spirit of March Madness (which we explained in last Friday’s Back Story), we devised a tournament to compare the systems in Australia, Britain, Sweden and the U.S. (Australia got the trophy.)• U.S. stocks were down. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• Afghan military helicopters bombed a religious ceremony in Kunduz Province, killing at least 70 people and wounding 30 others. Witnesses said that many children were among the victims. [The New York Times]• The rise and fall of Steve Smith, one of Australia’s most revered sportsmen. His role in a ball-tampering scheme has prompted national soul-searching. [The New York Times]• The Pacific nation of Nauru has cut its ties with Australia’s High Court, which had been the island’s final court of appeal since 1976. Critics said hundreds of asylum seekers held at an Australian offshore detention center on Nauru could now be left without the right to appeal. [BBC]•  Fiji is reeling from Tropical Cyclone Josie, which has left at least four people dead and one missing amid severe flooding. [The Weather Channel]Advertisement• Tiangong-1, a Chinese space station the size of a school bus, re-entered Earth’s atmosphere, scattering its remaining pieces over the Pacific Ocean. [The New York Times]• In the Israeli-occupied West Bank, the traditional baptism site of Jesus on the Jordan River is surrounded by minefields. An operation is underway to clear them. [The New York Times]• Uzbekistan’s president, Shavkat Mirziyoyev, is bucking the global strongman trend: reining in the secret police, releasing political prisoners and allowing some freedom of expression. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Exercising while young may, possibly, create more heart-muscle cells.• Those two-minute walk breaks? They add up.• Recipe of the day: Don’t stress over dinner. Just make fettuccine with asparagus.• The mystery of the mummy. A museum wasn’t sure whose head they had put on display. So the F.B.I.’s forensic scientists were called in to crack the agency’s oldest case.• Tim Franco, a photographer who splits his time between South Korea and China, explores the stories of North Korean defectors in a new portrait series. The title, “Unperson,” is a riff on a construct from George Orwell’s novel “1984.”• And after nearing extinction 20 years ago, the Iberian lynx has made a comeback in southern Spain and Portugal, thanks to a vast E.U. recovery program (and about 50,000 rabbits).AdvertisementHong Kong, a special administrative region of China, has a vibrant mix of people, languages and cultures. Its flag takes a similar hybrid approach.The flag was approved by the Chinese national legislature 28 years ago this week. It was first raised on July 1, 1997, the day Hong Kong was returned to Chinese rule after more than 150 years as a British colony and territory.The flag was designed to reflect Hong Kong’s new relationship with the People’s Republic of China. It is the same shade of red as the Chinese national flag.In the center is a white flower from the Bauhinia blakeana, or Hong Kong orchid tree. (The real flower is a purplish pink and is not actually an orchid.) Stars on each of the five petals echo the five stars on the Chinese flag.The flag’s two colors are said to represent the “one country, two systems” principle under which China agreed to rule Hong Kong for the first 50 years.In recent years, Hong Kong protesters have waved the British colonial flag to express their displeasure with the way Beijing governs. Since the handover in 1997, lawmakers and activists in Hong Kong have also been prosecuted for desecrating the Chinese and Hong Kong flags.Jennifer Jett contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 1:56 A.M. E.D.T.
RICHFIELD, Ohio —  U.S. President Donald Trump said on Thursday he may hold up a trade agreement reached this week with South Korea until after a deal is reached with North Korea on denuclearization."I may hold it up until after a deal is made with North Korea," Trump said in a speech. "You know why? Because it's a very strong card. And I want to make sure everyone is treated fairly," he added.Senior U.S. officials have expressed concerns privately that Seoul is the weak link in the U.S.-Japan-South Korean alliance and could be too quick to seal a deal with North Korea.Trump agreed this month to accept an invitation to meet with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. South Korean officials have said the meeting would take place by the end of May, after a North-South summit in April."We're moving along very nicely with North Korea. We'll see what happens. Certainly the rhetoric has calmed down just a little bit," Trump told construction workers in Ohio.AdvertisementThe United States and South Korea earlier this week agreed to revise their six-year-old free trade agreement with a side deal to deter competitive currency devaluation by Seoul and more access for U.S. automakers and drug makers to the South Korean market.The deal also lifts the threat of a 25 percent U.S. tariff on imports of steel from South Korea in exchange for quotas that will effectively cut U.S. imports of Korean steel by about 30 percent. Without the agreement in place, the tariffs would take effect May 1.AdvertisementA statement by U.S. Trade Minister Robert Lighthizer and South Korean Trade Minister Hyun Chong Kim described steel terms as being agreed, with the KORUS free-trade deal changes as an "agreement in principle on the general terms" while details are still being finalized.The U.S. Treasury and the South Korean Ministry of Strategy and Finance are finalizing the currency terms, they said.The trade deal changes, which preserve the U.S.-South Korean trading relationship at a critical time for Seoul, do not need congressional approval but are subject to a 60-day consultation period with Seoul.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The White House said the two sides had reached a "great new KORUS agreement in principle" and it was up to Trump to decide when to finalize it."The president, taking into account all relevant considerations - including negotiations with North Korea - will determine the best time to sign a finalized agreement on behalf of the United States," Principal Deputy Press Secretary Raj Shah said.South Korea's Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy Paik Un-kyu said on the sidelines of a news conference in Seoul that the ministry was trying to figure out the real intent of Trump’s remarks, a trade ministry spokeswoman said.The ministry had made a request to the U.S. side, said a senior ministry official who declined to identified due to the sensitivity of the matter."In terms of the negotiation schedule, we would have to review terms legally and finalize a draft ... Both South Korea and the United States have their own domestic procedures, so we're not at a signing stage because those procedures take time," the official said.(This story has been refiled to fix typographical error in paragraph 13)(Additional reporting by David Lawder in Washington and Jane Chung in Seoul; Editing by Jonathan Oatis and James Dalgleish)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 1:11 P.M. E.D.T.
SEOUL —  South Korean trade officials braved snowstorms, ate instant noodles to save time and spent weeks hotel-hopping in Washington as they raced to overcome major trade hurdles with their U.S. ally ahead of high-stakes nuclear discussions with North Korea.What was meant to be a week-long trip to Washington stretched into a four-week marathon, as dozens of Seoul officials sought to wrap up talks aimed at amending the six-year-old U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement known as KORUS, according to several South Korean officials with direct knowledge of the matter.U.S. plans announced earlier this month to impose hefty tariffs on steel and aluminium imports added urgency to the trade negotiations. As the third-largest steel exporter to the United States, South Korea had a lot to lose from 25 percent tariffs.Seoul also felt it couldn't afford a protracted trade dispute with its most important ally at a time when the two need to work together to contain a nuclear-armed North Korea, the officials told Reuters.Advertisement"This had to work well," a senior official at South Korea's presidential Blue House told Reuters. "It was right to settle this as soon as possible because if this remains ahead of inter-Korean talks and U.S.-North Korea talks, it could unnecessarily complicate our relationship."AdvertisementU.S. President Donald Trump initially welcomed the breakthrough as a "great deal for American and Korean workers", a marked turnaround from a year ago when he told Reuters he would either renegotiate or scrap what he called a "horrible" trade deal.But Trump said on Thursday he may hold up signing it until after an agreement is reached with North Korea on denuclearisation, saying such a deal was "a very strong card" to ensure fairness on the new trade pact.Trump is expected to meet with North Korea's Kim Jong Un in May after the two Koreas hold their first summit in more than a decade in late April. All parties are expected to discuss the denuclearisation of North Korea."FINALLY WITHIN REACH"Whenever South Korean President Moon Jae-in had a phone call with Trump to discuss the North Korean nuclear issue in recent months, Moon also raised the trade agenda, the Blue House official said.In their latest call on March 16, while the two countries' trade representatives were holding a third round of trade talks in Washington, Moon asked Trump to have a "keen interest" in the matter and work toward a speedy trade agreement before their respective summit meetings Kim, the Blue House said at the time.Around that time, South Korean negotiators started to see a glimmer of hope they could save the trade pact, which has seen the U.S. goods trade deficit with South Korea double since 2012 when it took effect."The negotiations started to make progress around March 17, and that's why our trade team decided to stay longer because they thought agreement was finally within reach," said a South Korean senior trade ministry official.AdvertisementThe official and another trade official said nearly 30 South Korean negotiators had to move hotels repeatedly in Washington when their trip took longer than expected, at times finding themselves crammed into one hotel room to work on their negotiation strategy for the next day.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."We mostly lived off on instant noodles and quick seaweed rice wraps bought from Korean supermarkets to save time," the official said.The efforts culminated in a revised pact the two countries announced this week that gives U.S. automakers and pharmaceuticals more access to the South Korean market.It also lifted the threat of a 25 percent U.S. tariff on South Korean steel in exchange for quotas that will cut imports of Korean steel by about 30 percent."We swiftly removed potential conflicts between the two countries at a time when close cooperation between South Korea and the United States is more important than ever," a second senior Blue House official said.All the South Korean officials interviewed by Reuters asked not to be named due to the sensitivity of the issue.For a graphic on North Korea revealed, click  https://www.reuters.com/north-korea/For a graphic on Nuclear North Korea, click  http://tmsnrt.rs/2lE5yjF"AS COLD AS SIBERIA"The talks didn't get off to a good start as the United States "kept asking us to make concessions unilaterally," South Korean Trade Minister Kim Hyun-chong said in an interview broadcast live to the Blue House’s Facebook account on Thursday."When we first met to talk, the mood was as cold as Siberia and our meeting only lasted for 21 minutes," Kim said, referring to U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer. "Later on, we got closer and our relations developed to something like a bromance."AdvertisementFrom the start, South Korea saw that for the deal to survive, concessions were inevitable in autos, which made up over 70 percent of its 2017 trade surplus with the United States."If the free trade deal got terminated and 8 percent tariffs revived on South Korean auto exports, that would have been an absolute nightmare. Problem was, how do we sell a deal that doesn't do anything good for us?," a senior South Korean government official said."The steel issue effectively provided an opening. We make concessions in autos that we saw as inevitable anyway, and in return become the first country to be exempt from steel tariffs. This suddenly became a win-win."(Reporting By Jane Chung and Christine Kim. Additional reporting by Cynthia Kim. Editing by Soyoung Kim and Lincoln Feast)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy REUTERSAPRIL 3, 2018, 5:32 A.M. E.D.T.
BEIJING —  Chinese State Councillor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi met North Korean Foreign Minster Ri Yong Ho in Beijing on Tuesday, China's foreign ministry said on its microblog.The ministry posted a picture of the two men shaking hands but did not provide further details.(Reporting by Michael Martina; Editing by Robert Birsel)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy REUTERSAPRIL 3, 2018, 6:47 A.M. E.D.T.
BEIJING —  Chinese State Councillor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi met North Korean Foreign Minster Ri Yong Ho in Beijing on Tuesday, China's foreign ministry said on its microblog.The ministry posted a picture of the two men shaking hands but did not provide further details.(Reporting by Michael Martina; Editing by Robert Birsel)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 8:14 A.M. E.D.T.
BEIJING —  Senior Chinese diplomat Yang Jiechi told South Korean President Moon Jae-in on Friday that all parties must seize the moment to advance talks between leaders of North and South Korea, and between North Korea and the United States.Tension over North Korea's tests of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles surged last year and raised fears of U.S. military action in response to the North's threat to develop a nuclear weapon capable of hitting the United States.But the situation has eased significantly since North Korea decided to send athletes to the Winter Olympics in South Korea in February.The two sides, still technically at war after the 1950-53 conflict ended with a ceasefire, not a truce, are set to hold their first summit in more than a decade on April 27, after North Korean leader Kim Jong Un pledged his commitment to denuclearisation.AdvertisementYang, a top Chinese diplomat and a member of China's elite Politburo, told Moon on a visit to Seoul it was a crucial moment for alleviating the situation on the Korean peninsula, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said.Advertisement"All sides must seize the moment, work together, promote smooth meetings that achieve positive outcomes between leaders of South and North Korea, and between North Korea and the United States, and in due course reopen a substantive political resolution process to the peninsula issue," Yang said.Yang also informed Moon about Kim's visit to Beijing this week, the North Korean leader's first known foreign trip since he assumed power in 2011, where he met Chinese President Xi Jinping.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Moon thanked Yang for China's contribution to the easing of tension on the peninsula, the Chinese ministry said in a statement.Kim is scheduled to meet U.S. President Donald Trump in May to discuss the nuclear issue, although a time and place have not been set.His pledge to denuclearise the Korean peninsula was reported by Chinese state media, but North Korea's official media made no mention of it, or Kim's anticipated meeting with Trump.Kim and Trump had earlier exchanged insults and veiled threats of war but the U.S. leader made the surprising announcement this month that he was prepared to meet Kim.Trump wrote on Twitter he had received a message from Xi late on Tuesday that his meeting with Kim "went very well" and that Kim looked forward to meeting the U.S. president.(Reporting by Michael Martina; Editing by Robert Birsel)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 7:59 A.M. E.D.T.
BEIJING —  Senior Chinese diplomat Yang Jiechi told South Korean President Moon Jae-in on Friday that all parties must seize the moment to advance talks between leaders of North and South Korea, and between North Korea and the United States.Tension over North Korea's tests of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles surged last year and raised fears of U.S. military action in response to the North's threat to develop a nuclear weapon capable of hitting the United States.But the situation has eased significantly since North Korea decided to send athletes to the Winter Olympics in South Korea in February.The two sides, still technically at war after the 1950-53 conflict ended with a ceasefire, not a truce, are set to hold their first summit in more than a decade on April 27, after North Korean leader Kim Jong Un pledged his commitment to denuclearisation.AdvertisementYang, a top Chinese diplomat and a member of China's elite Politburo, told Moon on a visit to Seoul it was a crucial moment for alleviating the situation on the Korean peninsula, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said.Advertisement"All sides must seize the moment, work together, promote smooth meetings that achieve positive outcomes between leaders of South and North Korea, and between North Korea and the United States, and in due course reopen a substantive political resolution process to the peninsula issue," Yang said.Yang also informed Moon about Kim's visit to Beijing this week, the North Korean leader's first known foreign trip since he assumed power in 2011, where he met Chinese President Xi Jinping.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Moon thanked Yang for China's contribution to the easing of tension on the peninsula, the Chinese ministry said in a statement.Kim is scheduled to meet U.S. President Donald Trump in May to discuss the nuclear issue, although a time and place have not been set.His pledge to denuclearise the Korean peninsula was reported by Chinese state media, but North Korea's official media made no mention of it, or Kim's anticipated meeting with Trump.Kim and Trump had earlier exchanged insults and veiled threats of war but the U.S. leader made the surprising announcement this month that he was prepared to meet Kim.Trump wrote on Twitter he had received a message from Xi late on Tuesday that his meeting with Kim "went very well" and that Kim looked forward to meeting the U.S. president.(Reporting by Michael Martina; Editing by Robert Birsel)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 10:59 P.M. E.D.T.
TOKYO —  Japan's defense chief welcomed on Friday the planned resumption of U.S.-South Korean joint military exercises, saying the annual drill set to start on Sunday would add pressure on North Korea to abandon its nuclear weapons program."It's our understanding that the exercises will be of a similar scale to past years. In order to make North Korea respond properly, they play an important role," Japan's Minister of Defence Itsunori Onodera said at a regular news briefing.The one-month Foal Eagle field exercise is scheduled to begin on Sunday, with the computer-simulated Key Resolve drill to be held for two weeks starting in mid-April. Around 24,000 U.S. troops and 300,000 South Korean personnel will take part in the exercises, according to the Pentagon.The resumption of the joint training comes after Seoul and Washington said in January they would delay the exercises because of the Winter Olympics held in South Korea in February.(Reporting by Nobuhiro Kubo; Writing by Tim Kelly; Editing by Paul Tait)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 1:42 A.M. E.D.T.
TOKYO —  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said on Friday he would explain Japan's stance on the North Korean abduction of Japanese citizens in a meeting with Donald Trump, ahead of the U.S. president's planned summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.Japan's government worries the emotive matter of the abductees, which Abe has made a key issue during his political career, will take a back seat to nuclear and missile issues in the U.S.-North Korean summit."I plan to visit the Unites States next month and have a summit meeting with President Trump and discuss the North Korean situation," Abe said."In particular I would like to explain Japan's stance on the abduction issue," he said during a meeting with family members of those abducted by North Korea decades ago.AdvertisementNorth Korea admitted in 2002 it had kidnapped 13 Japanese in the 1970s and 1980s to train as spies, and five of them returned to Japan. Tokyo suspects that hundreds more may have been taken.AdvertisementNorth Korean leader's Kim Jong Un met President Xi Jinping in China this week, his first trip abroad since becoming North Korean leader in 2011.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.South Korean President Moon Jae-in is set to meet Kim Jong Un on April 27, followed by a planned summit with Trump in May, to try to resolve the crisis over Pyongyang's nuclear and missile programmes.Japan wants to make sure Trump does not make a deal with Pyongyang that protects the U.S. mainland but leaves Japan vulnerable.Japanese officials including Abe have left open the possibility that Abe may hold talks with Kim Jong Un, with a focus on the abductions, although diplomatic experts say that would likely be after seeing how the other summits play out."The missile and nuclear issues need to be negotiated among the parties concerned, especially between the United States and North Korea," a former Japanese diplomat said on condition of anonymity. "We need to negotiate on bilateral issues and the abductions are the main thing."(Reporting by Kiyoshi Takenaka; Additional reporting by Linda Sieg; Editing by Chris Gallagher and Michael Perry)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 11:47 P.M. E.D.T.
TOKYO —  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said on Friday he would explain Japan's stance on the North Korean abduction of Japanese citizens in a meeting with Donald Trump, ahead of the U.S. president's planned summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.Japan's government worries the emotive matter of the abductees, which Abe has made a key issue during his political career, will take a back seat to nuclear and missile issues in the U.S.-North Korean summit."I plan to visit the Unites States next month and have a summit meeting with President Trump and discuss the North Korean situation," Abe said."In particular I would like to explain Japan's stance on the abduction issue," he said during a meeting with family members of those abducted by North Korea decades ago.AdvertisementNorth Korea admitted in 2002 it had kidnapped 13 Japanese in the 1970s and 1980s to train as spies, and five of them returned to Japan. Tokyo suspects that hundreds more may have been taken.AdvertisementNorth Korean leader's Kim Jong Un met President Xi Jinping in China this week, his first trip abroad since becoming North Korean leader in 2011.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.South Korean President Moon Jae-in is set to meet Kim Jong Un on April 27, followed by a planned summit with Trump in May, to try to resolve the crisis over Pyongyang's nuclear and missile programs.Japan wants to make sure Trump does not make a deal with Pyongyang that protects the U.S. mainland but leaves Japan vulnerable.Japanese officials including Abe have left open the possibility that Abe may hold talks with Kim Jong Un, with a focus on the abductions, although diplomatic experts say that would likely be after seeing how the other summits play out."The missile and nuclear issues need to be negotiated among the parties concerned, especially between the United States and North Korea," a former Japanese diplomat said on condition of anonymity. "We need to negotiate on bilateral issues and the abductions are the main thing."(Reporting by Kiyoshi Takenaka; Additional reporting by Linda Sieg; Editing by Chris Gallagher and Michael Perry)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 11:38 P.M. E.D.T.
TOKYO —  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said on Friday he would explain Japan's stance on the North Korean abduction of Japanese citizens in a meeting with Donald Trump, ahead of the U.S. president's planned summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.Japan's government worries the emotive matter of the abductees, which Abe has made a key issue during his political career, will take a back seat to nuclear and missile issues in the U.S.-North Korean summit."I plan to visit the Unites States next month and have a summit meeting with President Trump and discuss the North Korean situation," Abe said."In particular I would like to explain Japan's stance on the abduction issue," he said during a meeting with family members of those abducted by North Korea decades ago.AdvertisementNorth Korea admitted in 2002 it had kidnapped 13 Japanese in the 1970s and 1980s to train as spies, and five of them returned to Japan. Tokyo suspects that hundreds more may have been taken.AdvertisementNorth Korean leader's Kim Jong Un met President Xi Jinping in China this week, his first trip abroad since becoming North Korean leader in 2011.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.South Korean President Moon Jae-in is set to meet Kim Jong Un on April 27, followed by a planned summit with Trump in May, to try to resolve the crisis over Pyongyang's nuclear and missile programmes.Japan wants to make sure Trump does not make a deal with Pyongyang that protects the U.S. mainland but leaves Japan vulnerable.Japanese officials including Abe have left open the possibility that Abe may hold talks with Kim Jong Un, with a focus on the abductions, although diplomatic experts say that would likely be after seeing how the other summits play out."The missile and nuclear issues need to be negotiated among the parties concerned, especially between the United States and North Korea," a former Japanese diplomat said on condition of anonymity. "We need to negotiate on bilateral issues and the abductions are the main thing."(Reporting by Kiyoshi Takenaka; Additional reporting by Linda Sieg; Editing by Chris Gallagher and Michael Perry)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 6, 2018, 3:25 A.M. E.D.T.
TOKYO —  More than six decades after the troops died for their country, the repatriation of the remains of thousands of U.S. military personnel missing in action and presumed dead from the Korean War may finally get a boost now that President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un are expected to hold the first-ever summit between their countries.Nearly 7,800 U.S. troops remain unaccounted for from the Korean War. About 5,300 were lost in North Korea.Efforts to recover and return the remains have been stalled for more than a decade because of the North's development of nuclear weapons and U.S. claims that the safety of recovery teams it sent during the administration of President George W. Bush was not sufficiently guaranteed.There are indications, however, that Trump may raise the issue directly with Kim when they meet. There is also a chance Kim might return some remains even before the summit. The location and date of the summit have yet to be announced, though officials have suggested the meeting should take place by May.Advertisement"Hopefully, the North Koreans will turn over some remains as a goodwill gesture before the summit," said Bill Richardson, a former U.N. ambassador and New Mexico governor who secured the return of six sets of remains from North Korea in 2007. "This would help enormously to diffuse some tension."AdvertisementFrank Metersky, a Korean War veteran and a leading advocate of efforts to recover the remains with Korea Cold War Families of the Missing, one of three main support groups for families of service personnel missing in action, said he has been told by administration officials dealing with the matter that it is tentatively high on the summit agenda."The MIA issue, recovery of remains from the Korean War is the third item on the list if they get to it," he said by phone from New York. "If the meeting takes place and they get past the nuclear and missile issues, it's the third item on the agenda."Trump's decision to meet Kim has come under criticism amid skepticism over whether he will be able to negotiate a nuclear deal with the North.An agreement from Kim to return remains or allow future search missions would allow Trump to claim a concrete success. Hopes are high that Kim might also be willing to release three Americans of Korean descent it is now holding in custody for what it calls "anti-state" activities.According to the Pentagon's Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency , most of the missing Americans died in major battles or as prisoners of war. Others died along the wayside or in small villages. Many of the losses from aircraft crashes also occurred near battle zones or roads connecting them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.North Korea and the United States remain technically at war because the 1950-53 fighting ended with an armistice, not a peace treaty. But between 1996 and 2005, joint U.S.-North Korea military search teams conducted 33 joint recovery operations and recovered 229 sets of American remains.Washington officially broke off the program because it claimed the safety of its searchers was not guaranteed, though the North's first nuclear test, in 2006, was likely a bigger reason. Critics of the program also argued the North was using the deal to squeeze cash out of Washington, calling it "bones for bucks."The total cost to the U.S. to carry out the joint missions was $19.5 million.Talks to restart recovery work resumed under President Barack Obama in 2011, only to fall apart after North Korea launched a rocket condemned by the U.S. as a banned test of ballistic missile technology. There has been essentially no government-to-government progress since.AdvertisementRichard Downes, president of the Coalition of Families of Korean and Cold War POW/MIAs, said the North had expressed a willingness to return remains as recently as 2016, when he traveled to Pyongyang as a private citizen with a non-profit headed by Richardson."If progress is made, even without the remains issue being raised, windows may open sometime afterward," he said in an email to The Associated Press.The passage of time is making recovery efforts more difficult.In 2016, the AP visited a site about 160 kilometers (100 miles) north of Pyongyang were villagers have buried what they claimed to be dozens of sets of remains that were unearthed during the construction of the Chongchon River No. 10 Hydroelectric Power Station.The villagers collected the remains that had been dug up, put them in large burlap bags and buried them in three separate places on a nearby hill overlooking a valley that was to be flooded as part of the construction project. Whether the remains are actually of Americans, of course, can't be determined until they are recovered, separated and probably DNA tested.But the U.S. government has estimated as many as 270 sets of American remains are likely recoverable in the area, which is now called Kujang County. Searching for them was one of the top priorities when the U.S. missions were still going to North Korea. Nearly a dozen joint searches were conducted in the area from 1998-2000.___Talmadge, currently in Tokyo, is the AP's Pyongyang bureau chief. Follow him on Twitter and Instagram: @EricTalmadgeWe’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 10:11 P.M. E.D.T.
SEOUL —  International Olympic Committee President Thomas Bach told North Korean leader Kim Jong Un at a meeting on Friday that the IOC would cooperate with the North to prepare for its participation in the 2020 Tokyo and 2022 Beijing Olympic Games, the North's official Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) has reported.Bach travelled to Pyongyang on Thursday in a visit that comes after North Korea's participation in the Pyeongchang Winter Games helped ease inter-Korean relations.He told Kim in a meeting that the trip was to "express the most heartfelt thanks" to North Korea's leader for helping make February's Pyeongchang Winter Olympics a Games that were "symbolic of peace," KCNA said on Saturday.Athletes from North and South Korea marched under a unified peninsula flag at the opening ceremony in Pyeongchang and the two Koreas have experienced a significant thaw in tensions since the Feb. 9-25 Winter Olympics.AdvertisementKCNA said Kim expressed thanks for the IOC's support and for cooperating with North Korea "regardless of any political climate and conditions".AdvertisementHe said he hoped that the IOC's relationship with the North's Olympic Committee would continue to develop favourably and expected cooperation in developing and improving sport in North Korea, the report added.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.An official from South Korea's Unification Ministry said it was aware of the KCNA's report but declined to comment further.Bach had accepted North Korea's invitation in February, and told Reuters at the time that he saw sports as a way to reduce political tensions.After Kim made a surprise trip this week to Beijing to meet with Chinese President Xi Jinping, his engagement with the international community has sparked speculation he may try to meet other leaders ahead of summits with South Korean President Moon Jae-in and United States President Donald Trump.The two Koreas have experienced a significant easing in tensions since the Winter Olympics in South Korea in February, leading them to set a date to hold their first summit in more than a decade on April 27.(This story has been refiled to add full name of Chinese president)(Reporting by Heekyong Yang; Additional reporting by Joori Roh; Editing by Peter Rutherford)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 4:38 A.M. E.D.T.
SEOUL, South Korea —  South Korea is trying to find out what President Donald Trump meant when he made remarks linking the recently renegotiated South Korea-U.S. free trade agreement with talks on denuclearizing North Korea.South Korean President Moon Jae-in's office said Friday that it is working through various channels to find out the President Trump's "true intentions" following his speech in Ohio, where he said he may hold up the free trade deal until after an agreement is reached with North Korea. Trump said the trade deal with South Korea, which is the first major trade agreement reached by his administration, is "a very strong card and I want to make sure everyone is treated fairly."Trump did not explain what leverage he thought the U.S. would wield by holding up the trade deal with South Korea. His comments raised concern in South Korea since Seoul views the revamped bilateral free trade deal as separate from the North Korean issue.His comments were made hours after two Koreas agreed to hold a summit on April 27 ahead of a possible meeting between Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.Separately on Wednesday, top trade negotiators from South Korea and the United States released a joint statement noting that the two sides had agreed in principle on general terms for modifying their six-year-old trade pact. The statement said the talks represented "important progress in improving Korea-U.S. trade and economic relations, based on their strong and enduring security relationship."Final details are still under discussion, it said.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 31, 2018, 10:31 A.M. E.D.T.
SEOUL, South Korea —  From aging crooners to bubbly K-Pop starlets, some of South Korea's biggest pop stars flew to North Korea on Saturday for rare performances that highlight the sudden thaw in inter-Korean ties after years of tensions over the North's nuclear ambitions.The concerts in Pyongyang on Sunday and Tuesday come ahead of a historic summit between North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and South Korean President Moon Jae-in at a border village on April 27. The meeting, which will precede a planned summit between Kim and President Donald Trump in May, could prove to be significant in the global diplomatic push to resolve the standoff over the North's nuclear weapons and missiles program.The 120-member group that flew to Pyongyang also included government officials, reporters and a taekwondo demonstration team that will perform in Pyongyang on Sunday and Monday. Another team of 70 South Korean technicians went to Pyongyang on Thursday to set up equipment.Singer Yoon Do-hyun, who previously performed in Pyongyang in 2002, was emotional after landing in the North Korean capital.Advertisement"My heart is bursting," Yoon told reporters, his eyes welling up with tears. "I am most curious about the reaction of the audience, how it would be different from 16 years ago."AdvertisementThe artists were greeted by Hyon Song Wol, the photogenic leader of Kim Jong Un's hand-picked Moranbong girl band who has been working out the details of the performances with South Korean officials."Your arrival in Pyongyang brings big expectations," she said. "A lot of famous singers have come."A look at the South Korean singers who made the trip and a certain horse-dancing specialist who didn't:___THE LEGENDDuring stormier times, North Korea described the South's society and culture as a "corrupt bourgeois lifestyle." Still, that didn't stop southern pop singers from performing across the border when relations warmed.It's the second trip for the iconic Cho Yong-pil, perhaps South Korea's most influential musician of the past 50 years. He staged a solo concert in Pyongyang in 2005 during a previous era of rapprochement between the rivals."It will be as comfortable performing in the North as it is to perform in the South," the 68-year-old singer said at a news conference at South Korea's Gimpo Airport on Saturday. "There's no reason for me or other singers to be nervous. We all finished rehearsing and will have a fun and comfortable time showing our music."Seoul hasn't officially announced the titles of the songs by the South Korean artists. Cho's "Dear Friend," a ballad about a long-lost friend that reportedly drew an enthusiastic response from the Pyongyang crowd 13 years ago, will almost certainly be one of them.It would be the third North Korean performances for female balladeers Choi Jin-hee and Lee Sun-hee, who are relatively well-known in the North.AdvertisementThe 61-year-old Choi will likely sing her biggest hit, "Maze of Love," which is rumored to have been a favorite of former North Korean leader Kim Jong Il, the late father of current leader Kim. Lee, who at 53 still might have the best pipes in the business, may sing "To J," one of several South Korean songs North Korean musicians performed during the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics."I hope we can create a stage where we can make an emotional connection and convey the warm feelings between the South and North," Choi said.___THE GIRLSIt won't be all slow ballads in Pyongyang. It will be interesting to see how the North Koreans reacts to girl band Red Velvet, currently one of the most popular acts in the highly competitive K-Pop scene.The genre, which has a huge following across Asia, has been defined by synthesized music, powerful visuals and dance moves, and teasing sexuality. In recent years, South Korea's military has used K-Pop for psychological warfare, blaring it from loudspeakers along the heavily armored border between the rivals."Happiness! Hello, it's Red Velvet!" band member Seulgi cheerfully shouted during the news conference.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."We're the 'maknae' (youngest of the group), so we will make sure to deliver our bright energy to the North," said the 24-year-old.K-Pop groups have performed before in North Korea. The now-disbanded Sechs Kies and Fin.K.L sang and danced in Pyongyang in 1999, as did boy band Shinhwa in 2003. Some of the artists said later that the reaction from the audience was awkward and quiet.Red Velvet may find a better reception more than a decade later as cultural tastes change, even in isolated North Korea. Currently, the most popular music act in North Korea is Hyon's Moranbong band, whose members often perform suggestive shimmies in short skirts with electric guitars.Park Hyeong-il, an official at South Korea's Unification Ministry, said North Korean officials didn't show any discomfort about Red Velvet and also didn't take issue with the "red" in the band's name.AdvertisementRed Velvet is originally a five-member band, but only four made the trip to Pyongyang — 22-year-old Joy stayed in South Korea to film a soap opera.___NO 'GANGNAM STYLE,' PLEASEDespite constant questioning from reporters, South Korean officials aren't offering a clear explanation on why PSY, the "Gangnam Style" singer, was left out of the concert lineup.South Korea's culture ministry spokesman Hwang Seong-un said without specifying that the YouTube rapper had been initially considered for the Pyongyang events before being excluded. He said he couldn't confirm a media report that North Korean officials had rejected PSY."What I can say is that we explored ways to include him, but it didn't work out," Hwang said. "We hope there will be better opportunities for him in the future."It's possible that officials from either the North or the South concluded that PSY's bizarre humor and highly sexualized music would be too provocative for the North Korean public.It's not that North Korea had entirely ignored the global Gangnam Style craze. In September 2012, the North posted a video on its Uriminzokkiri website of a horse-dancing PSY character that had a photo of conservative South Korean presidential candidate Park Geun-hye's face transposed on it. The lyrics had the character satirically defending Park's late father, staunch anti-communist dictator Park Chung-hee.Park went on to win the presidential race, only to be ousted from office and jailed over a corruption scandal in March last year.___WILL KIM JONG UN ATTEND?The South Korean singers will perform at the 1,500-seat East Pyongyang Grand Theater on Sunday and then take part in a joint concert with North Korean artists on Tuesday at the 12,000-seat Ryugyong Jong Ju Yong Gymnasium.AdvertisementIt's unclear whether North Korean leader Kim will show up in any of these performances. His presence would be seen in the South as a proper response to Moon's attending the North Korean performances in February. But Kim also was accused by Seoul in previous years of harshly punishing, and even executing, North Korean officials and people who were caught privately consuming South Korean popular culture.In 2014, South Korea's spy agency told lawmakers that North Korea used firing squads to execute 10 officials that year for taking bribes or watching South Korean television dramas.___Follow Kim Tong-hyung on Twitter at @KimTongHyungWe’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

