AdvertisementSupported byBy Michelle GoldbergOpinion ColumnistLast week Roseanne Barr — who, with the hit reboot of her show, has become one of the most prominent Donald Trump supporters in the country — tweeted that the president has freed hundreds of children a month from sexual bondage. “He has broken up trafficking rings in high places everywhere,” she wrote. (The tweet has since been deleted.)Barr’s tweet, puzzling to the casual observer, was a reference to QAnon, an expansive, complicated pro-Trump conspiracy theory. The theory is fascinating as an artifact of our current political derangement, but more than that, it’s profoundly revealing about the lengths to which some Trump supporters will go to convince themselves that his presidency is going well.As Paris Martineau explained in New York Magazine, QAnon was born last October, when someone claiming to have “Q” level security clearance started a cryptic thread on 4chan, the online message board and troll playground. It was titled, “The Calm Before the Storm,” a phrase Trump had recently used. Q posted hints, some in the form of questions, ostensibly meant to help clued-in Trump supporters understand what was really going on in Washington beneath the facade of chaos and incompetence. (“What is military intelligence? Why go around the 3 letter agencies?”)From these clues, a sprawling community on message boards, YouTube videos and Twitter accounts has elaborated an enormous, ever-mutating fantasy narrative about the Trump presidency. In the QAnon reality, Trump only pretended to collude with Russia in order to create a pretext for the hiring of Robert Mueller, the special counsel, who is actually working with Trump to take down an inconceivably evil and powerful network of coup-plotters and child sex traffickers that includes Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama and George Soros.“QAnon points out that this is the beginning of the end for the Clintons,” said Jerome Corsi — a prominent proponent of the lie that Obama was born in Kenya — on a YouTube broadcast in January. He warned that the world would be forced to contend with “films of innocent children pleading for their lives while people are butchering them.” Once that happens, presumably, Trump will be revealed as a master of 12-dimensional chess who successfully distracted smirking elites with his buffoonery while he was quietly saving the world.Posts on other websites, as well as YouTube videos, Twitter accounts and even a book, have taken the theory in countless directions, encompassing characters from the model Chrissy Teigen to disgraced politician Anthony Weiner. The creativity poured into QAnon is striking; it’s like something between a sprawling work of crowdsourced postmodern fiction and an immersive role-playing game.But for many people, QAnon is very real. Barr has tried to make contact with Q on Twitter. InfoWars, the website run by conspiracy theorist Alex Jones — who has a close relationship with Trump confidant Roger Stone — has consistently promoted it. Last month, Cheryl Sullenger, senior vice president of the anti-abortion group Operation Rescue, posted an article on the group’s website about an “intel drop” from Q revealing a White House plan to end Planned Parenthood. Sean Hannity retweeted a post with the #QAnon hashtag.Some elements of the QAnon conspiracy theory — secret elites, kidnapped children — are classic, even archetypical. “In all Western culture, you can argue that all conspiracy theories, no matter how diverse, come from the idea of the Jews abducting children,” Chip Berlet, the co-author of “Right-Wing Populism in America: Too Close for Comfort,” told me. Stories about globalists stealing children for sex aren’t that far removed from stories about Jews stealing children to use their blood making matzo.One twist, however, makes QAnon unusual. Conspiracy theories are usually about evil cabals manipulating world events. QAnon, by contrast, is a conspiracy theory in which the good guys — in this case, Trump and his allies — are in charge. It’s a dream of power rather than a bitter alibi for victimhood. It seems designed to cope with the cognitive dissonance caused by the gap between Trump as his faithful followers like to imagine him, and Trump as he is.On Thursday, the usually even-keeled Mike Allen published a piece in Axios titled, “The case for extreme worry,” about how those close to Trump are panicked by his erraticism. The president’s whims and resentments have led to stock market convulsions and may soon result in painful tariffs that affect American farmers, an important part of his base. Mueller’s special counsel investigation continues to close in. Republicans have lost special election seats in red-leaning areas all over the country. But QAnon offers assurance that everything is under control.Barr, for example, retweeted a QAnon post arguing that conservative criticism of the omnibus spending bill, legislation many on the right deplored, was shortsighted. In releasing funds to the military, it said, the bill would set off a climactic series of events: “Swamp drain begins, military seizes TRILLIONS in cabal assets, returning them to the people.” An inspector general report would then reveal the establishment’s unspeakable crimes, after which “the strings will be cut from the propaganda machine and people will stop falling for the garbage MSM,” or mainstream media. Trump, and those who believe in him, would be vindicated.You don’t create a wild fantasy about your leader being a covert genius unless you understand that to most people, he looks like something quite different. You don’t need an occult story about how your side is secretly winning if it’s actually winning. Publicly, many right-wing politicians and pundits disdain the Mueller investigation and pretend to believe that Trump’s ties to Russia are negligible. But among part of the Trump base, the effort to explain them away appears to be creating psychic strain.“You cannot possibly imagine the size of this,” said a Q dispatch last month. “Trust the plan. Trust there are more good than bad.” Q almost certainly doesn’t know any state secrets, but he, she, or they understand that some fervent Trump supporters require more reassurance than they’re willing to admit. Their desperate conviction that they will be proven right about Trump betrays a secret fear that they will be proven wrong.I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@michelleinbklyn) and join me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS

AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 6, 2018, 2:57 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump plans to skip the White House Correspondents' Association dinner, marking the second year he has shunned the glitzy gathering of Washington journalists he routinely assails as "fake news."White House Correspondents' Association president Margaret Talev said in statement Friday that the "White House has informed us that the president does not plan to participate in this year's dinner but that he will actively encourage members of the executive branch to attend."Trump had said he "probably won't do it" in an interview on the "Bernie and Sid" radio show on 77 WABC Radio taped Thursday and aired Friday. Calling the media "so bad" and "so fake," Trump said: "I want to get it straightened out with the press before I do it."But the president, who has long had an adversarial relationship with the news media, did not elaborate on how he planned to do so. Since his campaign, he has ceaselessly blasted the "fake media" and "dishonest" reporters, singling out specific journalists and news outlets for criticism. He also has avoided holding a traditional news conference for over a year, though he often answers shouted questions from reporters.AdvertisementTrue to form, Trump tweeted Friday: "So much of the media is dishonest and corrupt!Traditionally, the president and first lady attend the annual dinner, a fundraiser for college scholarships and a venue for reporting awards, which mixes politicians, journalists and celebrities. The televised event requires the president to smile through remarks by a comedian — who typically roasts the president — as well as deliver a humorous address, teasing the press and political opponents.AdvertisementThough notoriously thin-skinned, Trump has subjected himself to ribbing before, including New York's Al Smith dinner during the 2016 campaign. But the correspondents' dinner would return him to the site of past humiliation: Trump attended in 2011 and was relentlessly mocked by President Barack Obama and comedian Seth Meyers.He skipped it in 2016, which came amid the presidential campaign and was the last of the dinners at which Obama was the honored guest. That didn't mean Trump wasn't the butt of jokes. At one point Obama told guests that Trump "has spent years meeting with leaders from around the world — Miss Sweden, Miss Argentina, Miss Azerbaijan."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.This year, White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders will attend the April 28 dinner and represent the administration at the head table. Cabinet members and staffers are also free to attend, a message that was welcomed by West Wing aides who were forced to sit out the celebrations last year.Trump did attend the annual Gridiron Club Dinner earlier this year, delivering a speech at the annual white-tie affair featuring journalists and officials. At that event, Trump offered a series of good natured one-liners in his remarks.Among his quips: "I was very excited to receive this invitation and ruin your evening in person. That's why I accepted."But he drew a more mixed response at the Alfred E. Smith Memorial Foundation Dinner that benefits needy kids, also attended by Trump's Democratic presidential rival, Hillary Clinton.Trump began innocently enough. He joked that Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., used to love Trump when he was a Democrat. He poked fun at plagiarism involving the first lady. But Trump's remarks soon devolved into bitterness and insults, with the soon-to-be-president earning boos as he accused Clinton of corruption and hating Catholics.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 6, 2018, 1:04 A.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump has spoken: He wants U.S. troops and civilians out of Syria by the fall. But don't call it a "timeline."Wary of charges of hypocrisy for publicly telegraphing military strategy after criticizing former President Barack Obama for the same thing, the White House has ordered Trump's national security team not to speak of a "timeline" for withdrawal. That's even after Trump made it clear to his top aides this week that he wants the pullout completed within five or six months.It wasn't the result top national security aides wanted. Trump's desire for a rapid withdrawal faced unanimous opposition from the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Pentagon, the State Department and the intelligence community, all of which argued that keeping the 2,000 U.S. soldiers currently in Syria is key to ensuring the Islamic State does not reconstitute itself.But as they huddled in the Situation Room, the president was vocal and vehement in insisting that the withdrawal be completed quickly if not immediately, according to five administration officials briefed on Tuesday's White House meeting of Trump and his top aides. The officials weren't authorized to discuss internal deliberations and requested anonymity.AdvertisementIf those aides failed in obtaining their desired outcome, it may have been because a strategy that's worked in the past — giving Trump an offer he can't refuse — appears to have backfired.AdvertisementRather than offer Trump a menu of pullout plans, with varying timelines and options for withdrawing step-by-step, the team sought to frame it as a binary choice: Stay in Syria to ensure the Islamic State can't regroup, or pull out completely. Documents presented to the president included several pages of possibilities for staying in, but only a brief description of an option for full withdrawal that emphasized significant risks and downsides, including the likelihood that Iran and Russia would take advantage of a U.S. vacuum.Ultimately, Trump chose that option anyway.The president had opened the meeting with a tirade about U.S. intervention in Syria and the Middle East more broadly, repeating lines from public speeches in which he's denounced previous administrations for "wasting" $7 trillion in the region over the past 17 years.What has the U.S. gotten for the money and American lives expended in Syria? "Nothing," Trump said over and over, according to the officials.The intensity of Trump's tone and demeanor raised eyebrows and unease among the top brass gathered to hash out a Syria plan with Trump, officials said: Gen. Joseph Dunford, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; Defense Secretary James Mattis, CIA chief Mike Pompeo and acting Secretary of State John Sullivan.At one point, Dunford spoke up, one official said, telling Trump that his approach was not productive and asked him to give the group specific instructions as to what he wanted.Trump's response was to demand an immediate withdrawal of all American troops and an end to all U.S. civilian stabilization programs designed to restore basic infrastructure to war-shattered Syrian communities.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mattis countered, arguing that an immediate withdrawal could be catastrophic and was logistically impossible to pull off in any responsible way, without risking the return of the Islamic State and other terrorist groups in newly liberated territories, the officials said. Mattis floated a one-year withdrawal as an alternative.Trump then relented — but only slightly, telling his aides they could have five or six months to complete the mission to destroy the Islamic State and then get out, according to the officials. Trump also indicated that he did not want to hear in October that the military had been unable to fully defeat the Islamic State and had to remain in Syria for longer.AdvertisementThe president had spoken. But what to say about it publicly?In a brief and vague statement released the day after the meeting, the White House said the U.S. role in Syria is coming to a "rapid end" and emphasized that the U.S. was counting on other countries and the U.N. to deal with Syria's future. But it offered no specificity as to the timing of a U.S. withdrawal."The president has actually been very good in not giving us a specific timeline," Lt. Gen. Kenneth McKenzie, director of the Joint Staff, said Thursday. "We've always thought that as we reach finale against ISIS in Syria, we're going to adjust the level of our presence there. So in that sense, nothing has actually changed."Pentagon officials stressed that no formal order had been handed down to the military to alter course or start a withdrawal. Nonetheless, the officials said Trump was clear in his intent.For Trump, any notion of a "timeline" comes with significant political risk. After all, he had regularly bashed Obama on the campaign trail for forecasting his military moves in advance. In fact, Trump was so critical of Obama for putting an arbitrary deadline on the 2011 Iraq withdrawal that he dubbed Obama "the founder of ISIS," arguing that Obama had signaled to al-Qaida sympathizers in Iraq that they need only wait the U.S. out.And Trump's whole strategy for dealing with Afghanistan, for example, is based on the idea that the U.S. presence should be "conditions-based" and not time-based."I'm not like other administrations, where they say we're going to do this in four weeks and that. It doesn't work that way," Trump said last year, shortly after becoming president.___Associated Press writer Zeke Miller contributed to this report.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy GARDINER HARRISAPRIL 6, 2018
WASHINGTON — The Trump administration imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest men and 17 top government officials on Friday in the latest effort to punish President Vladimir V. Putin’s inner circle for interference in the 2016 election and other Russian aggressions.The sanctions are designed to penalize some of Russia’s richest industrialists, who are seen in the West as enriching themselves from Mr. Putin’s increasingly authoritarian administration.Effectively, the action prevents the oligarchs from traveling to the United States or doing business or even opening a bank account with any major company or bank in the West. It also restricts foreign individuals from facilitating transactions on their behalf.Elizabeth Rosenberg, a former sanctions official in the Obama administration, described the penalties as “fairly muscular” and predicted that more sanctions are probably coming.AdvertisementThey grow out of Washington’s oddly disjointed policy toward Russia: While President Trump has called for good relations with Mr. Putin, Congress and much of the rest of the  administration are pushing through increasingly punitive efforts that are sinking relations with Moscow to lows not seen in years.Advertisement“Nobody has been tougher on Russia, but getting along with Russia would be a good thing, not a bad thing,” Mr. Trump said this week. By Friday, according to a White House statement, he had dropped any qualification. “We cannot allow those seeking to sow confusion, discord and rancor to be successful,” Mr. Trump said.Friday’s list targets Mr. Putin’s inner circle. It imposes sanctions on a family member, his son-in-law, Kirill Shamalov, who has had close business ties to one of Mr. Putin’s longtime friends from St. Petersburg, Gennady Timchenko. It also penalizes people like Vladimir Bogdanov, the director general of Surgutneftegas, a large privately owned oil company that has long been rumored, without solid evidence, to have given an ownership stake to Mr. Putin.The list is an assault on one of the oligarchs’ favored tools for avoiding sanctions, which is to pass assets to their children.It targeted the oil executive Igor Rotenberg, the son of Arkady Rotenberg, who is a former judo partner of Mr. Putin and whose companies have won a host of state contracts, including one for the construction of a bridge from the Russian mainland to Crimea, the Ukrainian Black Sea peninsula seized by Moscow in 2014.Also on the list is Oleg V. Deripaska, who once had close ties to Mr. Trump’s former campaign manager, Paul Manafort. Altogether, the Trump administration targeted seven oligarchs, 12 companies they own or control, 17 Russian government officials and a state-owned arms export company.“This list sends a very clear signal to Putin himself that we’re not afraid to go after your friends and their children,” said Alina Polyakova, a Russia expert at the Brookings Institution. “There is some real thinking in this.”Russia’s Foreign Ministry promised a “harsh response” and described Washington’s increasing use of sanctions as economically anti-competitive.AdvertisementThe sanctions have been under consideration for some time. A senior administration official who briefed reporters on the condition of anonymity said that they responded to Moscow’s continuing and increasingly “brazen pattern of malign activity” worldwide — especially against Western democracies.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“The Russian government operates for the disproportionate benefit of oligarchs and government elites,” Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said. “Russian oligarchs and elites who profit from this corrupt system will no longer be insulated from the consequences of their government’s destabilizing activities.”The sanctions come just as investigators working for Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel looking into the possibility of collusion between the Trump campaign and Moscow, have begun to question Russian oligarchs about possible financial links between those in Mr. Putin’s orbit and people close to Mr. Trump.Friday’s penalties could be particularly painful for Mr. Putin’s regime.While Russia’s oligarchs make nearly all of their money in Russia, many stash their families, their lovers and much of their wealth in places like London, New York and Miami, where they are believed to own hundreds of millions of dollars in property. However, the economic strain is likely to be delayed, given that most on the list have already shielded their assets.Targeted sanctions against the oligarchs are seen as a particularly good way to punish Moscow’s aggressive moves while sparing wider Russian society, which is already suffering under Mr. Putin’s thumb.The sanctions come just three days after Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, in his final speech as Mr. Trump’s national security adviser, warned darkly about the growing Russian menace.“For too long some nations have looked the other way in the face of these threats,” he said, adding, “And we have failed to impose sufficient costs.”The new sanctions stem from legislation passed by Congress overwhelmingly last year and designed to limit Mr. Trump’s ability to lift sanctions already imposed on Russia. Lawmakers in both parties feared that the president would suspend sanctions imposed by President Barack Obama as he pursued warmer relations with Moscow as promised during his campaign and first year in office.AdvertisementThe Trump administration opposed that legislation but quietly acceded to it after it passed with a veto-proof majority. Within that law was a measure requiring the administration to create a list of Russian oligarchs. Lobbying around the creation of the list became intense as Russia’s wealthiest citizens feared punishing sanctions to come.That is exactly what happened on Friday.The sanctions list will only hasten the slide of Washington-Moscow relations. This week, 60 American diplomats left Russia as part of a tit-for-tat series of expulsions that followed last month’s nerve-gas poisoning of Sergei V. Skripal, a former Russian double agent, and his daughter.Mr. Skripal’s poisoning on British soil prompted more than 20 countries to expel more than 100 Russian diplomats and intelligence officers, the largest such coordinated action ever. British officials believe that Mr. Skripal’s poisoning, which occurred after an assassin smeared a nerve agent on the door handle of his home, was such a risky operation that it was unlikely to have been undertaken without approval from the Kremlin.Russia has denied involvement in the poisoning.But the attack is seen as part of a pattern of increasingly aggressive moves by Mr. Putin, including the seizure of Crimea; military interventions in Georgia, Ukraine and Syria; tacit support for President Bashar al-Assad’s chemical attacks on his own populace in Syria; a direct attack by Russian mercenaries on American troops in Syria; and the hacking of elections in the United States and Europe.The Trump administration’s responses to Mr. Putin’s needling have been uneven. Although Congress gave the State Department $120 million in 2016 to counter Russian hacking efforts, the department has so far spent none of it. And Mr. Trump said this week that he wanted American forces to leave Syria soon, an exit that would benefit Iran, Russia and one of its allies, Mr. Assad.But the administration has also imposed considerable economic penalties on Russia, with Friday’s action the latest in a string of similar moves.NATO allies are now thinking anew about more coordinated responses to track and impose sanctions on Mr. Putin’s cronies. Both Congress and the British Parliament are considering legislation that would require that the owners of companies and properties be disclosed.Andrew Higgins contributed reporting from Moscow.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.A version of this article appears in print on April 7, 2018, on Page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: U.S. Puts New Sanctions On Putin’s Inner Circle.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy REUTERSAPRIL 6, 2018, 5:50 A.M. E.D.T.
MILAN —  European shares fell on Friday after U.S. President Donald Trump warned of further tariffs on China, although the losses were limited by gains among defensive stocks like utilities.The pan-European STOXX 600 fell 0.5 percent by 07.58 GMT, erasing part of Thursday's 2.4 percent gain. It remained on track for a weekly advance of 0.9 percent. Germany's exporter-heavy index DAX fell 0.7 percent.Trump on Thursday directed U.S. trade officials to identify another $100 billion of tariffs on Chinese imports, escalating a confrontation between the world's two largest economies. However, investors remained doubtful that a full-blown trade war would break out."Markets will now watch both the rhetoric from Trump's cabinet members and China's response to assess whether risk of a trade war is materially higher," Credit Suisse said. "We continue to see a trade war as unlikely".AdvertisementCaution still dominated, boosting defensive stocks. French utility Suez led the sector higher, up 2.8 percent, further boosted by a bullish broker note.AdvertisementElsewhere among top movers, Dufry rose 3.5 percent after the Swiss retailer proposed a higher-than-expected dividend and announced a share buyback.UK's Marks & Spencer fell 3.3 percent and Next lost 2.1 percent after Citi downgraded both stocks, among other retailers.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Telecom Italia rose 2.2 percent after Italian state lender CDP said it would buy a stake of up to 5 percent in the telecoms company.Chip makers like Infineon fell after losses overnight by Samsung Electronics shares. The South Korean tech giant was hit by growing concern that a semiconductor boom is about to end.The trade-exposed auto sector was the leading sectoral loser, down 2 percent.Later in the day, the focus will turn to the U.S. jobs report for more clues on how fast monetary policy will normalise in the United States.That could affect the outlook for the dollar, whose weakness has pushed up the euro, clouding prospects for European earnings. According to the Thomson Reuters IBES data, first- quarter earnings growth for the STOXX is seen at 3.4 percent, compared with 18.5 percent for the S&P 500.(Reporting by Danilo Masoni, editing by Larry King)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy CHRIS STANFORDAPRIL 6, 2018
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• The U.S. is considering tariffs on an additional $100 billion in Chinese products, President Trump said on Thursday, escalating a potentially damaging trade dispute with Beijing.It was the latest volley in a back and forth between the world’s two largest economies. Here’s how we got to this point.• Beijing  is trying to take advantage of vulnerabilities in the American political system. Our correspondent there explains why China is confident it would win a trade war.Washington imposed sanctions on some of Russia’s richest men and top officials today, punishing President Vladimir Putin’s inner circle for Russian aggressions.AdvertisementThe move is intended to penalize some industrialists who are seen in the West as enriching themselves from Mr. Putin’s increasingly authoritarian administration.Advertisement• They grow out of an oddly disjointed policy: While President Trump continues to call for good relations with Mr. Putin, Congress and much of the rest of the administration are pushing through increasingly punitive efforts that are sinking relations with Moscow to lows not seen in years.• At least five officials at the Environmental Protection Agency were sidelined in the past year after raising concerns about spending and management by the agency’s administrator, Scott Pruitt.Among Mr. Pruitt’s requests, some of which were declined: a $100,000-a-month charter aircraft membership, a bulletproof security desk, a 20-person protective detail and the use of lights and sirens to speed his motorcade’s trips through Washington (including to a trendy French restaurant).The E.P.A. challenged the assertion that the officials’ reassignments and their objections were related. “We dispute the veracity of the accusations,” an agency spokesman said.• Senior White House officials say Mr. Pruitt’s fate is uncertain as he confronts a growing series of ethical questions.• In his first public comments about the matter, President Trump said on Thursday that he didn’t know about a $130,000 payment to a pornographic film actress who claims to have had a sexual relationship with him.Asked why Michael Cohen, his personal lawyer, had made the payment, Mr. Trump said, “You’ll have to ask Michael Cohen.”AdvertisementMr. Trump’s remarks came after an appearance in West Virginia in which he literally tossed out his “boring” speech to renew his criticism of U.S. immigration law and to assert that millions voted illegally in the 2016 election.• Some of his claims don’t add up.President Trump delivered a lengthy criticism of current immigration policy, accused Democrats of using “chain migration” to get votes and repeated unfounded claims of election fraud.• It was a presidential corruption scandal that exposed entrenched ties between South Korea’s government and huge conglomerates like Samsung.Park Geun-hye, the country’s former president, was sentenced today to 24 years in prison. She and a longtime friend were accused of collecting or demanding large bribes from three big businesses.• Almost all of South Korea’s presidents have seen their reputations tarnished by corruption scandals involving them, their relatives or their aides.Anchors on local stations owned by Sinclair Broadcast Group were forced to read identical scripts warning about “fake news.”• The shooting at YouTube headquarters this week highlighted security risks in the workplace. Many companies are similarly exposed, as an open-door policy pervades corporate America.• The U.S. added 103,000 jobs in March, down from February’s pace but strong enough to extend a record run of hiring. The unemployment rate remained 4.1 percent.• Your briefing writer remembers the 1980s fondly. So does Japan, where mild new prosperity has rekindled nostalgia for the last time the country’s economy truly boomed.• U.S. stocks were up on Thursday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.Advertisement• Can coffee rev up your workout?• Here’s how to uninstall Facebook Messenger.• Recipe of the day: This weekend, make one-pot meatballs and sauce.Our journalists recommend these great pieces:“As police shootings continue to draw headlines, the noted conservative writer and lawyer David French weighs in. He draws on his 2007 deployment in Iraq to ask: ‘Shouldn’t police at home exhibit at least as much discipline as soldiers at war?’“While noting that many police shootings are lawful and justifiable, he writes, ‘many others would be surprising to see in a war zone, much less in the streets of America’s cities.’ ” [National Review]— Lynda Richardson, senior staff editor, Travel“The Ides of March may have passed, but this history of Julius Caesar is still a fascinating and relevant read.“Plus it contains good advice like ‘two very good friends could make up for a lot of enemies.’ ” [The New York Review of Books]— Julie Bloom, deputy national editor• The week in good news is backWe’re happy to report that our column rounding up some of the week’s uplifting and inspiring stories has returned.• Quiz time!Did you keep up with this week’s news? Test yourself.Get a nightly rundown of the day’s top stories, delivered to your inbox every Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Ready for the weekendAt the movies, our critic says after watching the horror film “A Quiet Place” that “you’ll leave elated or I’ll eat my words.”We also review “Chappaquiddick,” a retelling of the 1969 car crash involving Ted Kennedy, and break down nine film festivals in New York City this month.AdvertisementHere are 11 TV shows we’ll be talking about, and 11 new books we recommend.The calendar might say April, but winter hasn’t fully released its grip on New York. We went in search of spring, starting with the annual Orchid Show in the Bronx.If you’re in the city, we also recommend 10 plays, 15 pop, rock and jazz concerts, 22 art exhibitions and seven things to do with kids.• Save the datePrince Harry and Meghan Markle will marry in less than six weeks. We have answers to everything you ever wanted to know — and some things you didn’t.• Best of late-night TVFacebook is under investigation in Australia, where, Jimmy Fallon noted, “Facebook’s stock actually goes down the toilet in a counterclockwise direction.”• Quotation of the day“I can’t imagine a patrol cop doing this who walked those streets or drove those streets.”— Jeffrey Fagan, a professor and criminologist at Columbia Law School, on the fatal shooting of a mentally ill Brooklyn man by plainclothes anti-crime officers who answered a call of a man brandishing what was thought to be a gun.• The Times, in other wordsHere’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Who was the first person to reach the North Pole? The answer’s more complex than you might expect.The American explorer Adm. Robert Peary claimed that he and his party reached the top of the world on this day in 1909.They sent the news by cable when they reached the nearest wireless station, in September of the same year. The Times ran it on the front page: “Peary Discovers the North Pole After Eight Trials in 23 Years.”AdvertisementThe only problem? A week earlier, The New York Herald had credited Peary’s rival, Frederick Cook, with the feat. He claimed to have reached the pole almost a year before, on April 21, 1908.Peary had supporters including The Times and the National Geographic Society, and it is his name that has mostly appeared in textbooks. A re-examination of his records in 1988 cast doubt on his account.True or false, the men’s rival claims have bound them together. As one researcher said: “Peary and Cook are like Siamese twins. If you separate them, you lose some vital parts of each.”Anna Schaverien contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.Follow Chris Stanford on Twitter: @stanfordc.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »

Advertisement

      By JONATHAN MARTIN and 
    
DENISE LU

APRIL 6, 2018

President Trump’s surprise victory and divisive governing style have galvanized Democrats in ways the party could have only dreamed of in the Obama years, when enthusiasm for its candidates sagged whenever Barack Obama was not on the ballot.There is perhaps no better illustration of Mr. Trump’s impact on the midterm campaign than in the soaring number of Democratic House candidates running for their party’s nomination in the primaries.House Candidates by Party1,5001,4151,406Democraticcandidates1,200934900Republicancandidates6003001990201020181,5001,4151,406Democraticcandidates1,200934900Republicancandidates6003001990201020181,5001,4151,406Democraticcandidates1,200934900Republicancandidates600300199020102018The filing period has not even ended in some states, and there are far more Democratic hopefuls than at any time in the last quarter-century, according to data from the Center for Responsive Politics, which tracks political donations.Notably, there are even more Democrats running for the House this year than there were Republican hopefuls in 2010, when the Tea Party uprising against Mr. Obama helped sweep in 63 new House Republicans.Stephanie Schriock, the head of Emily’s List, which backs female Democrats who support abortion rights, called this year’s election a “huge empowerment moment” for those eager to thwart Mr. Trump.“There’s this complete desire to stop what’s happening with the Trump Republican Party, and a feeling that they have to take control or this country will move back decades,” Ms. Schriock said.Beginning with the Women’s March on the day after Mr. Trump’s inauguration, women have been at the forefront of the opposition to his presidency. And that activism is reflected in the historic number of female candidates on the ballot.Female House Candidates by Party1,5001,200900424FemaleDemocraticcandidates600124300FemaleRepublicancandidates199020181,5001,200900424FemaleDemocraticcandidates600124300FemaleRepublicancandidates199020181,5001,200900424FemaleDemocraticcandidates600124300FemaleRepublicancandidates19902018“Women took a good look at the leadership in Washington, D.C., and decided our country could do better, and they want to be a part of that change,” said Alixandria Lapp, a longtime Democratic strategist who runs a House-focused super PAC.This year, 30 percent of Democratic House candidates are women. In the last two congressional elections, their share was 24 percent.Ms. Schriock said the groundswell can be traced to Election Day 2016. That was when the first female presidential nominee from a major party not only lost but was defeated by a man many Democratic women consider repugnant.“There are women across this country that were certain Hillary Clinton was going to be president,” she recalled, saying that Mrs. Clinton’s loss created “an awakening.”The number of Republican women running for the House has risen slightly, though it remains lower than a high in 2010.Matt Gorman, a spokesman for the House Republican campaign arm, noted that his party had aggressively sought out female candidates and that in a handful of open House seats, Republicans have recruited women of color to run.“We have more diverse women in competitive seats than we’ve ever had,” Mr. Gorman said.While the number of Republican men running for House seats has decreased this year, the number of Democratic men running is the highest since 1990.Male House Candidates by Party1,5009911,251MaleDemocraticcandidates1,200900810600MaleRepublicancandidates3001990201020181,5009911,251MaleDemocraticcandidates1,200900810600MaleRepublicancandidates3001990201020181,5009911,251MaleDemocraticcandidates1,200900810600MaleRepublicancandidates300199020102018Such a flood of candidates can, of course, create headaches. Expensive and contentious primaries often weaken a party’s chances to flip a seat. Several nominating contests are bound to reveal tensions in the Democratic coalition.But a surfeit of candidates can be a good problem: It reflects partisan intensity, which usually drives midterm election results.The last time Democrats had such an advantage over Republicans in House candidate recruitment was 2006. There were times that year when primaries grew heated and Washington-based officials saw someone other than their preferred candidate win the nomination. But that energy was ultimately a net plus: Democrats claimed a majority in both chambers of Congress in 2006 for the first time in over a decade.Source: Data for charts are from the Center for Responsive Politics, based on Federal Election Commission filings. Data are for all candidates active in the election cycle, including primaries and special elections. Numbers for previous years are for the complete cycles through 2016; numbers for 2018 are candidates processed by the F.E.C. through March 26.Advertisement

AdvertisementWith Andrew Ross SorkinAPRIL 6, 2018
Good Friday. Here’s what we’re watching:• Investors should get ready to feel “a little pain.”• Is the inflation scare over?• Hiring slowed in March.• The U.S.-China trade fight is getting hotter.• The Treasury Department sanctioned Russian mogul Oleg Deripaska.Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.President Trump has supported combative trade policies for years, and in recent months, his administration has begun to pursue them. The actions have weighed on the stock prices of large international corporations, and if implemented, could hurt their bottom lines.But global companies mostly have not detailed the potential impact of Mr. Trump’s trade policies. Will that now change? With first-quarter earnings imminent, and tensions with China escalating, shareholders may want companies to make specific disclosures. The companies may be tempted to say little. After all, Mr. Trump’s trade restrictions have merely been threatened, and may not occur if deals are struck. But in the past, companies have refreshed their outlooks in the face of circumstantial economic and geopolitical events, like the Gulf War. And investors will likely press firms to estimate the impact of a trade war and describe the measures they will take to protect their businesses.AdvertisementBoeing, Apple and General Motors are among the companies that will come under the spotlight. All do considerable sales in China. Apple and G.M. rely on manufacturing facilities in the country. Investors will have plenty of questions. How much might revenue and profits fall in a trade war? What would you do if your supply chains got interrupted? What sort of contingency measures are you readying? What would you do if you became the target of campaigns that aimed to stop Chinese consumers buying your products, like the one last year directed at South Korean products?AdvertisementExecutives will no doubt have good arguments for why their businesses won’t be hurt much. China’s airlines will remain reliant on a steady supply of Boeing’s aircraft for a long time. The facilities in China that make G.M. and Apple products are big employers. And since the proposed tariffs most likely won’t be in effect by the time first-quarter earnings are announced, companies will probably be able to get away with some generalities.Still, the prospect of a trade war raises questions about the adequacy of corporate disclosure. Those of G.M., contained in its latest annual report, seem quite detailed. They offer quite specific warnings about the risks of doing business in China, and the company even mentions the possibility of trade agreements falling apart. But financial reports from Boeing and Apple arguably have less on potential problems in China and trade disputes.Boeing’s annual report did mention tariffs and embargoes as threats. But the report, released in February, also sounded a bullish note on the global economy that now almost sounds like it was from a different era:“The long-term outlook for the industry continues to remain positive due to the fundamental drivers of air travel growth: economic growth and the increasing propensity to travel due to increased trade, globalization, and improved airline services driven by liberalization of air traffic rights between countries.”Will such language remain in Boeing’s reports?- Peter EavisFor years, investors had a singular focus on the Federal Reserve and its plans to raise rates.Any indication that the Fed could move more aggressively than expected to tighten monetary policies and stocks would pull back.Now the Fed has company in sending jitters through the market: Trade.A one-two punch from the White House and the Fed pushed stocks on Wall Street down Friday. The S.&P. 500 and the Dow Jones industrial average both finished off more than 2 percent.Markets began to slide at the start of trading after President Trump’s threat on Thursday to heap fresh tariffs on China. Investors took little comfort in statements from the administration’s top economic policymakers, Larry Kudlow, the director of the National Economic Council, and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary. Both men sought to tamp down the contentious back-and-forth between the two economic giants.Comments from Mr. Powell in the early Friday afternoon added to the unease. In a speech in Chicago, Mr. Powell highlighted the strength of the United States economic recovery and gave little indication that the Fed planned to deviate from its gradual path of lifting interest rates.President Trump, in a radio interview that was taped on Thursday and aired on Friday, acknowledged his approach to China could cause “a little pain” to financial markets but that it would be worth it in the long run.AdvertisementOn WABC Radio’s “Bernie & Sid in the Morning” show, Mr. Trump said:“Now we could—the easiest thing for me to do would be just to close my eyes and forget it.”“If I did that, I’m not doing my job. So, I’m not saying there won’t be a little pain but the market’s gone up 40 percent, 42 percent — so we might lose a little bit of it— but we’re going to have a much stronger country when we’re finished. And that’s what I’m all about. We have to do things that other people wouldn’t do.”The president also took to Twitter to defend his approach to trade policy. Mr. Trump, in a tweet, criticized both China and the World Trade Organization, saying that the Chinese “get tremendous perks and advantages, especially over the U.S. Does anybody think this is fair. We were badly represented. The WTO is unfair to U.S.”
            China, which is a great economic power, is considered a Developing Nation within the World Trade Organization. They therefore get tremendous perks and advantages, especially over the U.S. Does anybody think this is fair. We were badly represented. The WTO is unfair to U.S.        That followed another early morning tweet, in which Mr. Trump boasted that the new metals tariffs he has put into effect on China and other nations had not hurt American consumers as his critics predicted.
            Despite the Aluminum Tariffs, Aluminum prices are DOWN 4%. People are surprised, I’m not! Lots of money coming into U.S. coffers and Jobs, Jobs, Jobs!        Some context here: The price of aluminum per pound has been falling since February, a decline that started before the tariffs were imposed. Mr. Trump’s decision to exempt Canada, which supplied more than half of America’s aluminum imports in 2016, has also helped to soften the blow from tariffs, companies say.In response to a potential new set of U.S. tariffs on $100 billion worth of Chinese goods, Beijing said in a briefing on Friday that it would “immediately fight back with a major response.”More from what a representative for China’s Ministry of Commerce said:“We feel America is very arrogant. They have taken a wrong action. The result is that they will hurt themselves.”The briefing — amid a Chinese holiday — signals the latest instance of saber-rattling between the U.S. and China on trade. But was Mr. Trump’s announcement on Thursday just a bluff? Even his advisers aren’t sure.The Chinese official said that the two sides can’t negotiate under the current conditions. And in an interview with Bloomberg on Friday, Larry Kudlow — who has been national economic adviser for just under a week — said he could not predict when talks would begin. He added:
            Kudlow on China tariffs in a Bloomberg intvu just now: "This is a moderate, temperate approach that we are taking."        But China has reasons to think it could win a trade war. (Worth noting: U.S. tariffs wouldn’t bite until after a two-month comment period.)More companies, like Cargill, are getting jumpy. Some fear the tensions could kill Qualcomm’s bid for NXP Semiconductor. Jacob Frenkel, the chairman of JPMorgan Chase’s international business, is worried, too: He said the hostilities could be “the greatest danger to the world economy,” but aren’t at a war level yet. The Economist says that the president’s comments “do not suggest he is ready to sue for peace.”AdvertisementMeanwhile, the White House hopes to announce a preliminary Nafta deal this month after revising some of its more aggressive demands.Reaction of the day, from Senator Ben Sasse, Republican of Nebraska:
            Hopefully the President is just blowing off steam, but setting Amer agriculture on fire is not a plan. My statement: pic.twitter.com/zSJhYZPDK2 Earlier this year, stocks sold off after the jobs report for January showed a 2.9 percent annual increase in wages, a relatively strong rise. Investors feared that a sustained increase in earnings could prompt consumers to buy more goods and services, pushing up prices in the process. Concerns receded after February’s report showed a 2.6 percent jump in wages, and March’s rise of 2.7 percent is not likely to stir up more worries.But as they gauge wage pressures, analysts also pay close attention to the forces that indirectly affect wages. One of those is, of course, the number of additional jobs the economy is creating. March’s gain of 103,000 jobs was below economists’ forecasts and about half the monthly average this year. That weakness will no doubt reduce inflation fears still further.The March report contained data that could do even more to quell investors’ nerves over inflation. While the report revised February’s gain higher to 326,000 jobs from 313,000, it sharply reduced the January figure to 176,000 from 239,000. The January revision prompted Jim Vogel, of FTN Financial, to write:“That collapsed what had been an upward slope to the last two years of payroll growth and implicitly reduced the upward pressure on wages that so many are still certain will arrive this year.”— Peter EavisThe United States added jobs for its 90th straight month in March, an unprecedented run of growth for the economy, but at a much slower pace than in March.The headline numbers APRIL 6, 2018
• 103,000 jobs were added last month. Wall Street economists had expected an increase of about 185,000, according to Bloomberg.• The unemployment rate was 4.1 percent for the sixth straight month.APRIL 6, 2018
• Average earnings rose by 8 cents an hour and are up 2.7 percent over the past year.APRIL 6, 2018
• Estimates of February’s job growth were revised upward, but January’s figure was revised sharply downward. The net result was a loss of 50,000 jobs relative to prior estimates.The takeaways• Wage growth remains weaker than most economists would expect when unemployment is so low.Advertisement• The manufacturing sector has posted solid job gains over the past year, and that growth continued in March, when American factories added 22,000 jobs. But mounting trade tensions with China could threaten the sector’s rebound in the months ahead.• Perhaps the biggest surprise in the blockbuster February report was the surge of workers into the labor force. That flood of new workers partly reversed in March, when the labor force shrank by 158,000 people.There’s a lot to quote from Anthony Scaramucci’s meal with Edward Luce of the FT — held at the Hunt and Fish Club, the Midtown Manhattan restaurant that the onetime investor owns, naturally. So we’ll have to limit ourselves to just a few selections:• “That’s something I get no credit for, by the way,” he says. “I have been for equal opportunity in gay marriage for the last 12 or 13 years.”• “See this?” he says. “These are front-stabbing knives. You only use these in New York. In Washington you use a shiv, or mechanisms in the press, back-stabbing, subterfuge, opposition research . . . Not in New York. We come at you right from the front.”• “My parents thought it was Hartford law school, Connecticut — not Harvard,” he says. “True story. They’re still alive — you can ask them. When I told them I was going to Goldman Sachs they didn’t know what that was, either.• “Wall Street is a circulatory system for American capitalism. If its arterial flow is blocked, it blunts and slows down the economic engine for everyone else.”— Michael de la MercedProminent among the Russian oligarchs and businesses sanctioned by the Treasury Department on Friday is Oleg Deripaska, the billionaire known for his jet-setting, his consistent presence at the World Economic Forum in Davos — and his ties to Vladimir Putin (and, before a falling out, Paul Manafort).Mr. Deripaska is associated with aluminum producers like EN+ Group, which went public in London late year, and Rusal, as well as the commercial vehicle maker GAZ Group and energy producer EuroSibEnergo. All those companies were also sanctioned for being controlled or owned directly or indirectly by Mr. Deripaska.Here’s what the Treasury Department said about the move against the businessman:Oleg Deripaska is being designated pursuant to E.O. 13661 for having acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, a senior official of the Government of the Russian Federation, as well as pursuant to E.O. 13662 for operating in the energy sector of the Russian Federation economy. Deripaska has said that he does not separate himself from the Russian state. He has also acknowledged possessing a Russian diplomatic passport, and claims to have represented the Russian government in other countries. Deripaska has been investigated for money laundering, and has been accused of threatening the lives of business rivals, illegally wiretapping a government official, and taking part in extortion and racketeering. There are also allegations that Deripaska bribed a government official, ordered the murder of a businessman, and had links to a Russian organized crime group.— Michael de la MercedAndrew’s take: A favorite Wall Street parlor game is whether the JPMorgan Chase C.E.O. would run for president in 2020. Mr. Dimon’s latest annual letter increased that chatter, touching on immigration and political polarization. He praised some of President Trump’s policies (on tougher trade negotiations, on taxes). But his stances on deregulation and on social issues likely mean that he would have to run as an independent — and history hasn’t been kind to third-party candidates.Peter Eavis adds: The JPMorgan chief also homed in on regulations of bank liquidity, or access to cash and equivalents. He contended that liquidity requirements are higher now — which he favors — but are also more rigid and could impinge on lending. But the argument is flawed, in part because banks that have less liquidity aren’t in a position to lend.The investment behemoth’s plan to offer new funds that exclude gun makers or sellers is the latest prominent step by a financial firm to offer some support to gun control. (And with $6.3 trillion under management, the firm’s actions carry enormous weight.) The products include:• A new exchange-traded fund that focuses on favorable environmental, social and governance (E.S.G.) standards and excludes firearms-related companies. BlackRock will update other E.S.G. funds to exclude them, too.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• A bond-focused E.T.F. excluding gun-related companies.• New strategies available through 401(k) plans that track five major indexes, including the S.&P. 500, but screen out firearms sellers and makers.AdvertisementWalmart, Kroger and Dicks Sporting Goods, all of whom have now set some limits on gun sales, will still count as gun-related.Critic’s corner: Rob Cox of Breakingviews writes, “By getting out early, BlackRock makes clear to those young people lobbying for tighter gun laws — who it hopes will be customers for decades to come — that it has something for them.”Here’s the DealBook tally of financial firms that have announced concrete moves addressing gun control: Citigroup, Amalgamated, BlackRock. (Have we missed one? Let us know.)• President Trump’s attacks on Amazon arise from his anger at Jeff Bezos, unnamed people close to the White House say. (WSJ)• The president dispensed with a “boring” speech on tax to denounce immigration. (NYT)• E.P.A. officials were reassigned, demoted or requested new jobs after raising concerns about Scott Pruitt, unnamed sources said. Senior White House officials say the agency chief’s fate is uncertain given ethical questions about his housing (he reportedly fell behind on a lease from a lobbyist), staffing and travel expenses.• Mick Mulvaney has complained that the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau engages in “wasteful spending” — but gave his hires big raises. (NYT)• Mr. Trump denied knowing of a $130,000 payment his lawyer made to Stormy Daniels. (WaPo)• The administration and California officials are expected to try to settle a fight over car emissions standards. (NYT)• At an NYT event, Sally Yates, the former acting attorney general, said Mr. Trump was breaking democratic norms. (NYT)If users wanted to opt out of data-driven advertising, they would have to pay, Sheryl Sandberg told NBC in one of many interviews yesterday. (They can’t, as yet.) Still, Ms. Sandberg told Bloomberg that some advertisers had cut spending and admitted that the network faced a challenge in reassuring them.AdvertisementThe California public pension fund CALSTRS also wants more detail on how Facebook is protecting user data. (Its investment chief has deleted his account.)Mark Zuckerberg said yesterday that Facebook would apply tough new E.U. data-protection rules worldwide.But some analysts say that the worst may be over for investors.Elsewhere in Facebook: The company has put on hold a request for hospitals to share anonymized patient data for a research project. It has been accredited by the Media Ratings Council for the first of three rounds of ad impression auditing. Civic groups in Myanmar said Mr. Zuckerberg had exaggerated what Facebook was doing to stop incitement of violence there.• Tesla’s Model 3 impressed Jim Stewart. Will it win over enough other consumers to lift the carmaker’s fortunes? (NYT)• Google promised to increase office security in the wake of the YouTube shooting, and changes may come to other Silicon Valley campuses. (NYT)• Didi Chuxing is open for business — and taking on Uber — in Mexico. (Reuters)• Delta said that a cyberattack on the company that ran its website’s chat function may have compromised thousands of customers’ credit card data. (WSJ)Cryptocurrency corner: South Korean prosectors detained the heads of Coinnest and another exchange, on accusations of embezzling from customers. Coinbase is going into venture capital. The former C.E.O. of Mt. Gox, the first big failed Bitcoin exchange, is no longer a believer.Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has met with a slew of companies during his U.S. tour, including Amazon and the augmented-reality start-up Magic Leap. But the movie business was a focus.Advertisement“Entertainment is the new oil for Saudi Arabia,” the head of the kingdom’s entertainment authority told the WSJ. (Diversifying away from the old oil is the crown prince’s stated mission.)AMC Entertainment has announced plans to open the kingdom’s first movie theater in over 30 years. The crown prince is hoping for a Disney theme park, too. The Information has more, and says the Saudis are largely following a Chinese playbook.• Nine West, the U.S. shoe seller, reportedly could file for bankruptcy protection as soon as today, with a plan to sell its main brand to Authentic Brands Group. (Reuters)• Blackstone plans a $2.3 billion bid for the Spanish hotelier Hispania. (Reuters)• The investment firm Kimmeridge Energy Management has built an 8.1 percent stake in Carrizo Oil & Gas and wants the driller to consider selling itself, or at least some assets. (WSJ)• Domo, a Utah-based business software company, is reportedly preparing to file confidentially for an I.P.O. (Recode)• Instacart has raised another $150 million from existing investors like Coatue Management. (Axios)• Takeda Pharmaceutical might bid for Shire, its C.E.O., Christophe Weber, told some analysts at a meeting last week. I investors and the media weren’t invited. (Bloomberg)• Steve Jurvetson appears to have founded a new venture capital firm, Future Ventures, after resigning from DFJ after reportedly lying about an unidentified matter. (Recode)Advertisement• Deutsche Bank’s co-head of investment banking and global head of markets, Garth Ritchie, is reportedly considering leaving. And Matt Zames, formerly JPMorgan’s chief operating officer, has reportedly been contacted about becoming the German lender’s next C.E.O.• Skadden named 14 new partners, including in its M.&A., litigation and antitrust practices. (Skadden)• WageWorks, a provider of employee-benefits services, replaced its C.E.O., Joseph L. Jackson, C.F.O. and general counsel, and said it needed to restate financial results from the past two years. (WSJ)• Anthony Scaramucci, the former White House communications director, has been dabbling in the film business and has a credit in Al Pacino’s latest movie. (NYT)• Target agreed to revise hiring guidelines at its stores, after complaints that it considered old or very minor criminal records in a way that disproportionately affected black and Hispanic applicants. (NYT)• I.S.S. and Glass Lewis are recommending that G.E. address accounting issues by firing K.P.M.G., its auditor of 109 years. (WSJ)• Solar panels are everywhere, but renewable energy still accounts for barely 12 percent of electricity consumed globally. (NYT)Advertisement• The fashion industry, which employs an overwhelmingly female staff and focuses on female consumers and audiences, reported one of Britain’s worst gender pay gaps. (NYT)• Memories of a long-distant boom have left Japan with a peculiarly potent version of 1980s nostalgia. (NYT)We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 6, 2018, 8:30 A.M. E.D.T.
ABOARD AIR FORCE ONE —  In his first public comments about Stormy Daniels, President Donald Trump said he didn't know about the $130,000 payment his personal attorney had made to the porn actress who alleges she had an affair with him.He also said he didn't know why his longtime lawyer, Michael Cohen, had made the payment and didn't know where Cohen had gotten the money."You'll have to ask Michael Cohen. Michael is my attorney. You'll have to ask Michael," he said Thursday aboard Air Force One while returning from West Virginia for an event on the new tax overhaul law.Until now, Trump had avoided questions on Daniels, though the White House has consistently said Trump denies a relationship. Still, he has been dogged by the focus on the adult-film actress, who says she had a sexual encounter with the president in 2006 and was paid to keep quiet about it as part of a nondisclosure agreement she signed days before the 2016 presidential election. Daniels is now seeking to invalidate that agreement.AdvertisementHer attorney, Michael Avenatti said in a statement: "Our case just got that much better. And we very much look forward to testing the truthfulness of Mr. Trump's feigned lack of knowledge concerning the $130k payment as stated on Air Force One."AdvertisementAvenatti, who has sought to have Trump give sworn testimony, added, "It is one thing to deceive the press and quite another to do so under oath."He later argued on MSNBC that Trump's statement could create legal problems, saying: "If the president didn't know anything about the payment, then he obviously didn't know anything about the agreement, in which case you can't have an agreement. And then there is no such thing as an NDA."Cohen didn't respond to requests for comment Thursday.Daniels, one of several women pursuing potentially damaging legal action against Trump, has kept up the highest profile in the media, helped by a punchy Twitter feed, a widely viewed interview on CBS' "60 Minutes" and a camera-ready attorney who has become a fixture on cable news.Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, has offered to return the $130,000 as she tries to "set the record straight." She's said she had sex with Trump once in 2006, a few months after the birth of his youngest son, and their relationship continued for about a year. Trump married his current wife, Melania, in 2005, and their son, Barron, was born in 2006.On "60 Minutes," Daniels described a sexual encounter with Trump that began with her suggesting he should be spanked with a magazine that featured his picture on the cover and then giving him a "couple swats." She also said she was threatened to keep silent about the relationship while out with her young daughter.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Daniels argues the nondisclosure agreement is legally invalid because it was signed by her and Cohen only, not by Trump.Cohen has said that he paid the $130,000 out of his pocket and that neither the Trump Organization nor the Trump campaign was a party to the transaction with Daniels and he was not reimbursed for the payment.However, Avenatti told "60 Minutes" that Cohen used his Trump Organization email address in setting up the payment and that the nondisclosure agreement was sent to Cohen at his Trump Organization office in Trump Tower.AdvertisementEarlier this week, Trump asked a federal judge to order private arbitration in the case. Trump and Cohen filed papers in federal court in Los Angeles asking a judge to rule that the case must be heard by an arbitrator instead of a jury.Avenatti said they would oppose private arbitration, arguing it should be heard by the American public.Avenatti also wants Trump to give sworn testimony in the case, but a federal judge ruled this week that those efforts were premature. If ultimately successful, it would be the first deposition of a sitting president since Bill Clinton had to answer questions in 1998 about his conduct with women.Trump faces a number of allegations about his sexual exploits long before he ran for president.Former Playboy model Karen McDougal recently told CNN that she had an affair with Trump that started in 2006 and ended in 2007. She filed a lawsuit in Los Angeles seeking to invalidate a confidentiality agreement with American Media Inc., the company that owns the supermarket tabloid National Enquirer. It paid her $150,000 during the 2016 presidential election.Trump is also facing a New York defamation lawsuit filed by Summer Zervos, a former contestant on "The Apprentice." Zervos has accused Trump of unwanted sexual contact in 2007 and sued him after he dismissed the claims as made up.A judge ruled the lawsuit can move forward.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 6, 2018, 5:58 A.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  When President Donald Trump made a congratulatory phone call to Russian leader Vladimir Putin, White House chief of staff John Kelly wasn't on the line.When Trump tapped John Bolton to be his next national security adviser, Kelly wasn't in the room.And when Trump spent a Mar-a-Lago weekend stewing over immigration and trade, Kelly wasn't in sight.Kelly, once empowered to bring order to a turbulent West Wing, has receded from view, his clout diminished, his word less trusted by staff and his guidance less tolerated by an increasingly go-it-alone president.Emboldened in his job, Trump has rebelled against Kelly's restrictions and mused about doing away with the chief of staff post entirely. It's all leading White House staffers and Trump allies to believe that Kelly is working on borrowed time.AdvertisementIn recent weeks, Trump has governed at breakneck pace, ousting aides and issuing surprise policy announcements on Twitter, recreating the helter-skelter feel of his first months in office. Kelly's allies maintain that his retreat is strategic. They suggest that the belief that Kelly was Trump's savior was an overstated idea all along and that the chief of staff is now content to loosen the reins and allow an increasingly comfortable president to govern from his gut.AdvertisementBut those close to the president say that Trump has increasingly expressed fatigue at Kelly's attempts to shackle him and that while Trump is not ready to fire Kelly, he has begun gradually freezing out his top aide.Trump recently told one confidant that he was "tired of being told no" by Kelly and has instead chosen to simply not tell Kelly things at all, according to a person who was not authorized to publicly discuss private conversations and spoke on condition of anonymity.In Trump's West Wing, once the rumors begin that an aide's exit is forthcoming, the "stink" on that staffer never leaves, according to one of the nearly dozen White House aides, former administration officials and outside advisers who spoke to The Associated Press under the same conditions.As Kelly's public profile and behind-the-scenes influence has faded, speculation has risen that chaos could return."It's not tenable for Kelly to remain in this position so weakened," said Chris Whipple, author of "Gatekeepers," a history of modern White House chiefs of staff. "More than any of his predecessors, Donald Trump needs an empowered chief of staff to tell him what he does not want to hear. Trump wants to run the White House like the 26th floor of Trump Tower, and it's simply not going to work."Kelly was once a fixture at the president's side, but Trump has now cut him out of a number of important decisions.For months, Kelly made it a practice to listen in to many of the president's calls, particularly with world leaders. While he is still on the line for some of those conversations, Kelly was not part of the call Trump made to Putin last month from the White House residence during which Trump ignored advisers' advice against congratulating the Russian president on his re-election.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Although Kelly had agitated for the removal of outgoing national security adviser H.R. McMaster, he counseled Trump against hiring Bolton, a neo-conservative media commentator. Trump did it anyway, offering the job to Bolton in a one-on-one meeting in the Oval Office and telling his chief of staff about it later.AdvertisementAs Trump spent the Easter weekend at his Florida resort and tweeted about his tariffs plan, Kelly was out of state, though the men did consult by phone. While Kelly has fumed about the ethics questions swirling around Environmental Protection Agency head Scott Pruitt, Trump was at least initially more supportive of Pruitt, telling him, "We've got your back."The president also has cast aside the constraints the retired four-star Marine general tried to place on Trump about whom he could see and speak to. Those restrictions led shunned advisers to try to undermine the chief of staff in the press and with Trump. For months, former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski was barred from the White House, only to return when Kelly was overruled by Trump, according to four White House aides and outside advisers.Many in the West Wing believed that Kelly's attempts to curtail Trump's interactions with Lewandowski, as well as Trump allies such as David Bossie and Anthony Scaramucci, were always destined to fail and alienate the president, who has privately contemplated recreating the freewheeling nature of his campaign and Trump Tower office. Kelly also has clashed with Trump's son-in-law and adviser Jared Kushner, who had his security clearance downgraded after a policy change written by the chief of staff.Some White House aides contend that Kelly has been intentionally giving Trump more leeway to be himself and that Kelly recognizes that's what Trump wants. But allies acknowledged Kelly's receding power and said he's trying to keep his head down and focus on policy, such as the plan to mobilize the National Guard along the U.S. border with Mexico.The White House declined to make Kelly available for an interview. In public, Trump praises his chief of staff, telling Marines in California last month that Kelly probably "likes what you do better than what he does, but he's doing a great job."The speculation surrounding Kelly echoes the treatment of his predecessor, Reince Priebus, who was the subject of months of questions about how long he would last on the job. Priebus eventually resigned under pressure.Kelly also no longer commands the same respect among some quarters of the staff. His role came under harsh scrutiny this year over his handling of the controversy surrounding ousted White House aide Rob Porter, who was accused of domestic abuse.Kelly's shifting version of events elicited frustration from former communications director Hope Hicks, who had been dating Porter, and dismayed a number of West Wing staffers. That episode frustrated Trump, who still remains agitated about an interview that Kelly gave to Fox News months ago in which he suggested that Trump had "evolved" in his thinking about the need for a wall on the Mexican border.Kelly, who took the job last July, had previously told confidants he hoped to be on the job for a year. One person familiar with his thinking said the chief of staff recently voiced doubt he would make it that far.Advertisement___Associated Press writers Zeke Miller and Jill Colvin contributed to this report.___Follow Lemire on Twitter at http://twitter.com/@JonLemire and Lucey at http://twitter.com/@catherine_luceyWe’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

