AdvertisementSupported byBy Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.In 1994, Newt Gingrich, brandishing his Contract with America, led a Republican revolution that swept aside Democratic majorities in the House and the Senate, initiating an epoch of conservative ascendancy that lingers on. Don Sipple, a Republican campaign consultant, declared at the time that the 1994 midterms pitted a Republican Party calling for “discipline” against a Democratic Party focused on “therapy.”Two years later, George Lakoff, a professor of linguistics at Berkeley, published “Moral Politics: How Liberals and Conservatives Think,” which argued thatDeeply embedded in conservative and liberal politics are two different models of the family. Conservatism is based on a Strict Father model, while liberalism is centered on a Nurturant Parent model. These two models of the family give rise to different moral systems.Several approaches to contemporary politics echo the insights of Sipple and Lakoff. The crucial word now, however, is authoritarianism.The election of Donald Trump — built as it was on several long-term trends that converged in 2016 — has created an authoritarian moment. This somewhat surprising development is the subject of “Remaking Partisan Politics through Authoritarian Sorting,” a forthcoming book by the political scientists Christopher Federico, Stanley Feldman and Christopher Weber, who argue thatThree trends — polarization, media change, and the rise of what many people see as threats to the traditional social order — have contributed to a growing divide within American politics. It is a divide between those who place heavy value on social order and cohesion relative to those who value personal autonomy and independence.The three authors use a long-established authoritarian scale — based on four survey questions about which childhood traits parents would like to see in their offspring — that asks voters to choose between independence or respect for their elders; curiosity or good manners; self-reliance or obedience; and being considerate or well-behaved. Those respondents who choose respect for elders, good manners, obedience and being well-behaved are rated more authoritarian.The authors found that in 1992, 62 percent of white voters who ranked highest on the authoritarian scale supported George H.W. Bush. In 2016, 86 percent of the most authoritarian white voters backed Trump, an increase of 24 percentage points.Federico, Feldman and Weber conclude thatAuthoritarianism is now more deeply bound up with partisan identities. It has become part and parcel of Republican identity among non-Hispanic white Americans.Last year, Federico, writing with Christopher Johnston of Duke and Howard G. Lavine of the University of Minnesota, published “Open versus Closed: Personality, Identity, and the Politics of Redistribution,” which also explores the concept of authoritarian voting.In an email, Johnston summarized some of their findings:Over the last few decades, party allegiances have become increasingly tied to a core dimension of personality we call “openness.” Citizens high in openness value independence, self-direction, and novelty, while those low in openness value social cohesion, certainty, and security. Individual differences in openness seem to underpin many social and cultural disputes, including debates over the value of racial, ethnic, and cultural diversity, law and order, and traditional values and social norms.Johnston notes that personality traits like closed mindedness, along with aversion to change and discomfort with diversity, are linked to authoritarianism:As these social and cultural conflicts have become a bigger part of our political debates, citizens have sorted into different parties based on personality, with citizens high in openness much more likely to be liberals and Democrats than those low in openness. This psychological sorting process does not line up perfectly with older partisan differences based on class, because those higher in income and education also tend to be higher in openness.Johnston addresses class differences in voting patterns and also differences stemming from the level of a voter’s interest in politics:An important caveat is that individuals who take a stronger interest in politics and know more about it are more likely to be sorted on the basis of openness. So, it’s really among those most “politically engaged” Democrats and Republicans where we see members of different parties diverge in openness. Moreover, sorting into different parties on the basis of openness appears to be much stronger among non-Hispanic whites than other racial and ethnic groups.In their book, Johnston, Lavine and Federico reinforce this point:With the rise of cultural and lifestyle politics, Democrats and Republicans are now sharply distinguished by a set of psychological dispositions related to experiential openness — a general dimension of personality tapping tolerance for threat and uncertainty in one’s environment.The revived interest in authoritarianism in politics began well before anyone seriously considered the possibility of a Trump candidacy — except, apparently, Trump himself.In 2009, Marc J. Hetherington of Vanderbilt and Jonathan D. Weiler of the University of North Carolina, wrote one of the fundamental texts on this topic, “Authoritarianism and Polarization in American Politics.”In it, Hetherington and Weiler argue thatpreferences about many of the new issues on the American political agenda, such as gay rights, the war in Iraq, the proper response to terrorism, and immigration are likely structured by authoritarianism.There are “colliding conceptions of right and wrong,” they write, between those on the high and low ends of the authoritarian scale. That, in turn, makes it difficult “for one side of the political debate to understand (perhaps, in the extreme, even respect) how the other side thinks and feels.”This October, Hetherington and Weiler will publish an elaboration on their argument, “Prius or Pickup? How the Answers to Four Simple Questions Explain America’s Great Divide.” They are abandoning the use of the word authoritarian because of its negative connotations and its association with fascism.In an email to me, Hetherington said that in their book he and Weiler will describe “people on opposite sides of the divide as having a fixed or fluid worldview:”Those with a fixed worldview tend to see “American Carnage,” while those with fluid worldviews see the world as a big, beautiful place that is safe to explore. The fixed tend to be wary of what they perceive as constant threats to their physical security specifically and of social change in general. The fluid are much more open to change and, indeed, see it as a strength. For them, anger lies in holding on to old ideas and rejecting diversity.Hetherington and Weiler argue that the answers to questions about the four childhood traits reveal “how worldview guides a person in navigating the world,” as Hetherington put it in his email:Not only do the answers to these questions explain preferences about race, immigration, sexual orientation, gender attitudes, the projection of military force, gun control, and just about every “culture war” issue, people’s worldviews also undergird people’s life choices. Because ‘the fixed’ are wary about the dangers around them, they prefer the country over the city. ‘The fluid’ prefer the reverse.Political analysts have become more and more aware of how voters’ sense of themselves as liberals or conservatives, Democrats or Republicans, has taken on heightened importance. Affirming one’s political tribe or community has in many respects become more important in deciding whom to vote for than the stands candidates take on issues.In a March paper, “Ideologues Without Issues,” Lilliana Mason, a political scientist at the University of Maryland, wrote:The power behind the labels “liberal” and “conservative” to predict strong preferences for the ideological in-group is based largely in the social identification with those groups, not in the organization of attitudes associated with the labels. That is, even when we are discussing ideology — a presumably issue-based concept — we are not entirely discussing issues.Mason continued:Identity-based ideology can drive affective ideological polarization even when individuals are naïve about policy. The passion and prejudice with which we approach politics is driven not only by what we think, but also powerfully by who we think we are.Matt Grossmann and Daniel Thaler of Michigan State University further expand on the role of psychological traits in voter decision-making in their forthcoming paper, “Mass-Elite Divides in Aversion to Social Change and Support for Donald Trump.” They found that aversion to change “is strongly predictive of support for Trump” among regular voters, but much less so among Republican political elites.They measure aversion to change by the answers to two polling questions: “Our country is changing too fast, undermining traditional American values” and “By accepting diverse cultures and lifestyles, our country is steadily improving.”The accompanying graphic shows how those who think that the country is changing too fast and who disagree with the notion that diverse cultures and lifestyles improve the United States voted decisively for Trump.Leonie Huddy, a political scientist at Stony Brook, sent me her analysis of how political conflict has shifted from economic to psychological factors.The groups that have come to define partisanship in recent years, she wrote,are far more grounded in social and moral values, geographic choice, and identity politics than the influential groups of yesteryear (especially unions) that maintained a focus on group economic interests. African-Americans may be an exception, but there is even a trend among young blacks to move away from the Democratic Party because they see the party as insufficiently focused on police brutality and other issues.The result, in her words, is a political environment in whichthe new affinities that shape partisanship are more a matter of choice than something one is born into or passed on by parents. That gives partisanship a more fluid nature than in the past and opens it to the formation of affinities grounded in personality, values, religion, and lifestyle choices.In her 2005 book, “The Authoritarian Dynamic,” Karen Stenner — a former member of the political science departments at Princeton and Duke and now a behavioral economist in Australia — described politics as a clash of conflicting personal beliefs or moral value systems.Stenner demonstrated, first, that levels of authoritarianism rise and fall in proportion to the experience of “normative threat,” and second that over the past generation authoritarianism has been predictive of Republican voting.Stenner developed auniversal theory about what causes intolerance of difference in general, which includes racism, political intolerance (e.g. restriction of free speech), moral intolerance (e.g. homophobia, supporting censorship, opposing abortion) and punitiveness. It demonstrates that all these seemingly disparate attitudes are principally caused by just two factors: individuals’ innate psychological predispositions to intolerance (“authoritarianism”) interacting with changing conditions of societal threat.Looked at this way, recent developments experienced by many voters as alarming — including the financial collapse of 2008, the surge of third-world immigration in the United States and Europe and continuing fears among traditionalists that the social order is under assault — have fueled authoritarianism:The threatening conditions, resonant particularly in the present political climate, that exacerbate authoritarian attitudes include at least the perception of civil dissent and unrest, loss of confidence in social institutions, unpopularity of leaders on both sides of politics, divisive presidential campaigns, internal or external crises that undermine national pride or confidence, national economic downturn and rapidly rising crime rates.In an email, Stenner provided figures from a recent EuroPulse survey showing that authoritarianism is stronger in the United States than it is in the European Union: In the E.U., 33 percent of the electorate can be described as authoritarian, while in the United States, it’s 45 percent.The animosity between authoritarians and non-authoritarians has helped establish what Johnston, Lavine and Federico describe as the “expressive dimension” of policy choices:In this view, the influence of personality on economic opinion arises not because the expected outcomes of a policy match an individual’s traits, but because those traits resonate with the social meaning a policy has acquired.They explain further:Citizens care less about the outcomes a policy produces and more about the groups and symbols with which a policy is associated.Mason enlarged on this argument in her 2015 paper, “‘I Disrespectfully Agree’: The Differential Effects of Partisan Sorting on Behavioral and Issue Polarization.” Her argument is a direct challenge to those who take, as she puts it,an instrumental view of politics, in which people choose a party and decide how strongly to support it based solely on each party’s stated positions and whether the party shares interests with them.Instead, she writes,Contrary to an issue-focused view of political decision making and behavior, the results presented here suggest that political thought, behavior, and emotion are powerfully driven by political identities. The strength of a person’s identification with his or her party affects how biased, active, and angry that person is, even if that person’s issue positions are moderate.While much of this research uses the “preferred traits in child-rearing” questions to measure authoritarianism, two sociologists at the University of Kansas, David Norman Smith and Eric Hanley, observe in “The Anger Games: Who Voted for Donald Trump in the 2016 Election, and Why?” that those questions do not capture the full scope of authoritarianism, especially the more aggressive authoritarianism that they believe drives voters to Trump.Smith and Hanley used what they call a “domineering leader scale” to measurethe wish for a strong leader who will force others to submit. The premise is that evil is afoot; that money, the media and government authority — and even “politically correct” moral authority — have been usurped by undeserving interlopers. The desire for a domineering leader is the desire to see this evil crushed.The domineering leader scale is based on responses to two statements: “Our country will be great if we honor the ways of our forefathers, do what the authorities tell us to do, and get rid of the ‘rotten apples’ who are ruining everything” and “What our country really needs is a strong, determined leader who will crush evil and take us back to our true path.”If an aggressive, domineering authoritarianism is a prime motivator for many Trump supporters, as Smith and Hanley contend, the clash between Republicans and Democrats is likely to become more hostile and warlike.Federico, Feldman and Weber note thatsince the early 2000s, many especially acrimonious political debates have focused on threats to social stability and order — debates surrounding abortion, transgender rights, immigration, and the role of the federal government in protecting the rights of marginalized social groups.The rising “salience of these debates,” they write, “has contributed to a growing ‘authoritarian divide’ within the United States, at least among White Americans.”Trump has purposefully exacerbated the “many especially acrimonious political debates” now dominating public discourse, deepening not only the authoritarian divide, but the divide between open and closed mindedness, between acceptance and racial resentment, and between toleration of and aversion to change. He evidently believes that this is the best political strategy for presiding in the White House and winning re-election, but it is an extraordinarily destructive strategy for governing the country and for safeguarding America’s interests in the world.I invite you to follow me on Twitter, @Edsall.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS

AdvertisementBy REUTERSAPRIL 5, 2018, 1:10 P.M. E.D.T.
SAN FRANCISCO —  Several Silicon Valley leaders called for increased gun control on Tuesday afternoon after a woman at the headquarters of YouTube shot and wounded three people before taking her own life.Tech companies have largely avoided the topic of gun control in the United States, but they have previously pushed for progressive stances on other hot-topic issues, ranging from climate change to same-sex marriage and comprehensive immigration reform. At least three major chief executives took up gun control after the shooting.“We can’t keep being reactive to this, thinking and praying it won’t happen again at our schools, jobs, or our community spots,” tweeted Twitter Inc and Square Inc CEO Jack Dorsey. “It’s beyond time to evolve our policies.”Joining Dorsey were Uber Technologies Inc [UBER.UL] CEO Dara Khosrowshahi and Box Inc CEO Aaron Levie, who respectively sent tweets on Tuesday saying #EndGunViolence and #NeverAgain, two Twitter hashtags commonly used by proponents of gun control.Advertisement“On behalf of the team at @Uber, sending support to everyone @YouTube and @Google, and gratitude to the heroic first responders,” Khosrowshahi tweeted. “Another tragedy that should push us again to #EndGunViolence”AdvertisementEmergency calls reporting gunfire in San Bruno, California, at the headquarters of Alphabet Inc’s YouTube began to pour in early Tuesday afternoon, according to the city of San Bruno. Authorities have not released the identities of the suspected shooter or the victims.The tweets on Thursday could be an indication that Silicon Valley may soon weigh in on the epidemic of mass killings by firearms in the United States.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Incredibly sad to see the YouTube shooting today,” Levie tweeted. “Our thoughts are with our Google friends and their families. #NeverAgain”Sundar Pichai and Susan Wojcicki, the CEOs of Google and YouTube respectively, also issued statements on Tuesday while avoiding the topic of gun control."There are no words to describe how horrible it was to have an active shooter @YouTube today," Wojcicki said. "Our deepest gratitude to law enforcement & first responders for their rapid response. Our hearts go out to all those injured & impacted today. We will come together to heal as a family."Other tech leaders expressed sympathy for the employees of YouTube on social media on Tuesday without referencing gun control. Those included Apple Inc CEO Tim Cook, Amazon.com Inc CEO Jeff Bezos, Salesforce.com Inc CEO Marc Benioff and Facebook Inc Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg.“From everyone at Apple, we send our sympathy and support to the team at YouTube and Google, especially the victims and their families,” Cook said in a tweet.(Reporting by Salvador Rodriguez, editing by Peter Henderson and Lisa Shumaker)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Eliza Sydnor RommMs. Romm is a descendent of a founder of Smith & Wesson, the gun manufacturer.In the early 1880s, legend has it that Daniel B. Wesson, a co-founder of Smith & Wesson, the gun manufacturer, heard about a child who injured himself by cocking the hammer and pulling the trigger of one of his firm’s revolvers. Wesson, known as D. B., was so distraught about the accident that he and his son, Joseph, developed a more child-safe revolver that they called the .38 Safety Hammerless.Wesson was also my great-great-great-grandfather. Though it has been half a century since my family was involved with Smith & Wesson, I feel a twinge of responsibility every time a mass shooting occurs. I realize this is not entirely rational: I play no part in making or selling firearms and have never lost anyone close to me from gun violence. But it still haunts me.After 17 people were killed at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., I learned the shooter used a Smith & Wesson M&P 15, a version of an AR-15 military-style rifle. So I had to ask myself: What would D. B. Wesson have wanted his company to do? Would he have accepted the repeated refrain, “Guns don’t kill people, people kill people”?Obviously I cannot know what D. B. Wesson would want. But I would like to believe that he would have recoiled in horror and disbelief at the weapons created by the brand still bearing his name. And that he would have wanted all of us to ask more of his company today.It is only fair for me, for all of us, to demand that our gun manufacturers become leaders in this national discussion around gun violence. They create products designed to kill human beings. The responsibility that must accompany the creation of weapons like an AR-15 is too large to be brushed aside by shouting about freedom and an amendment to our Constitution ratified in 1791.Yes, the company and other gun makers have taken some steps in calling for better enforcement of the national background check system and sponsoring firearm safety programs. But they can do so much more.I would start by asking the parent company of Smith & Wesson, American Outdoor Brands Corporation, to push for gun-violence research. Since 1996 the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has been severely restricted in researching gun violence. If gun manufacturers are truly responsible organizations, they should wholeheartedly want to back this research as a public health concern. Dr. Thomas Frieden, director of the C.D.C. from 2009 to 2017, asked Congress repeatedly to fund research in gun-violence prevention but never succeeded.In response to recent questions from BlackRock, an investment firm that owns the largest share of American Outdoor Brands, the gun maker’s president, James Debney, and chairman, Barry M. Monheit, said, “We must collectively have the courage to ensure any actions are guided by data, by facts and by what will actually make us safer.” Sounds like Mr. Debney, Mr. Monheit and Dr. Frieden are on the same page, so let’s see Smith & Wesson lead the charge in renewing gun-violence research by the C.D.C.I would also ask that the company publicly endorse the Brady Campaign’s Gun Dealer Code of Conduct. It should support requiring universal background checks and a national registry for tracking its products, and indeed all firearms. These measures would help prevent weapons from falling into the hands of the wrong people and make it easier for law enforcement to trace guns used in illegal activities. The refrain that criminals will always get their hands on a weapon, no matter what a gun manufacturer does, is apathetic and unacceptable. What will you do to make it better?Most obvious of all, Smith & Wesson should be pushing to require that all people who buy firearms undergo formal weapons training. Why would any responsible gun manufacturer not want a buyer trained extensively in how to properly use its very dangerous weapon?Do more than you are doing now. Have a purpose other than making money. Take part in this national discussion. Beyond expressions of sympathy, show the families of the victims of Parkland and Newtown and Columbine and Las Vegas and every nameless gun-violence tragedy occurring every day that you care about their pain and suffering.D. B. Wesson was a brilliant inventor who created a better gun than anyone had imagined in the 19th century. When he died in 1906, his guns had made him a multimillionaire. But he also cared deeply about the health and welfare of families and children. In his will, he left $450,000, the equivalent of more than $11 million in today’s money, for a hospital specializing in homeopathic medicine that was built a few years before he died and for the construction of another hospital to provide maternity care.If hearing about one child injured in the 1880s led him to invent the .38 Safety Hammerless, what would the more than 7,000 children killed or injured each year in the United States from gun violence stir in him? I believe if he could, he would beg the executives running Smith & Wesson today to stand up and join the fight to stop this bloodshed any way possible.Eliza Sydnor Romm, a distant relative of a co-founder of Smith & Wesson, the gun manufacturer, is a small-business owner living in North Carolina.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS

Advertisement
Breakingviews By                     
ROB COX

APRIL 5, 2018
BlackRock may have found a simple solution to its gun dilemma. The fund manager, led by Laurence D. Fink, will offer new products allowing individuals and institutions to invest in market indexes without putting money into manufacturers and retailers of firearms. Coupled with a plan to engage public gunmakers and sellers directly, the decision moves Mr. Fink closer to fulfilling a promise that BlackRock’s business benefit society alongside the bottom line.Because it has over $6 trillion of client money to invest, much of it in products that follow stock and bond market indexes, BlackRock is among the top owners of nearly every public company. That includes American Outdoor Brands, maker of the AR-15-style rifle used to murder 17 high school students and their teachers in Parkland, Fla., in February. And that put Mr. Fink, who has urged companies to serve a social purpose, in an uncomfortable position at a time of mass demonstrations and consumer boycotts over gun violence.On Thursday, his firm unveiled a range of index products that will enable investors to withhold their support for gunmakers and sellers. They include an exchange-traded fund that will track the performance of the MSCI USA Small Cap Extended ESG Focus Index, composed of small stocks with favorable environmental, social and governance standards, while specifically excluding producers and large retailers of civilian firearms. It will also offer a similar credit-focused E.T.F. that eschews the debt of gunmakers and distributors.Perhaps more significant, BlackRock will offer an option to take the guns out of institutional strategies tracking major market indexes, including the Standard & Poor’s 500, the Russell 2000 and three others. The reason: Amid the debate over gun safety that the Parkland tragedy has unleashed, many pension funds and company 401(k) plans have been looking to disarm, largely in response to the demand of their own members.BlackRock’s moves may spark criticism from gun-rights supporters, who lashed out at companies, like Delta Air Lines, that severed ties with the National Rifle Association. But it’s hard to see how offering customers more choice is ever a bad idea. Moreover, by getting out early, BlackRock makes clear to those young people lobbying for tighter gun laws — who it hopes will be customers for decades to come — that it has something for them. Far from virtue signaling, it’s simply good business.Rob Cox is editor of Reuters Breakingviews. For more independent commentary and analysis, visit breakingviews.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy ADAM LIPTAKAPRIL 5, 2018
WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”AdvertisementThat same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.AdvertisementClashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”AdvertisementThe state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”AdvertisementProfessor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”AdvertisementA second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.The news and stories that matter to Californians (and anyone else interested in the state). Sign up to get it by email.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an “actual enumeration” of the nation’s residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.“The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections,” Mr. Sessions said on Monday.AdvertisementCalifornia’s lawsuit said that adding a question on citizenship would depress participation and hurt communities with a high proportion of unauthorized immigrants. It said it has more to lose than any other state, as it has more foreign-born residents and noncitizens than any other.The administration said the citizenship information was needed to enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, but critics said that has not otherwise been a priority.In 2016, the Supreme Court ruled that states may count all residents, whether or not they are eligible to vote, in drawing election districts. That is the method currently used by every state. Some conservative groups say only eligible voters should be considered in drawing districts.Counting all people amplifies the voting power of places that have large numbers of residents who cannot vote legally — including immigrants who are here legally but are not citizens, unauthorized immigrants and children. Those places tend to be urban and to vote Democratic.The Supreme Court did not decide whether other methods of counting were permissible. Many political scientists say that the available information is not sufficient to count only eligible voters, and the new census question may have been added in part to gather such information.The state’s lawsuit has a decent chance of success. The decision to alter the census form was sudden and consequential, and courts may be reluctant to allow such a drastic change.Last year, California sued the administration over its plans to deny federal funding to so-called sanctuary cities unless they begin cooperating with federal immigration agents.“The Trump administration cannot manipulate federal grant fund requirements to pressure states, counties or municipalities to enforce federal immigration laws,” Mr. Becerra said at the time.AdvertisementA Justice Department spokesman responded that the state was putting the welfare of unauthorized immigrants ahead of public safety.The state lost a round in the case in March, when Judge William H. Orrick of the Federal District Court in San Francisco declined to issue a preliminary injunction. Judge Orrick, noting that courts around the nation had come to varying conclusions in similar suits, said “the issues in this case will benefit from further development.”Professor Somin has written that attaching conditions to federal grants can be at odds with federalism.“Some conservatives may cheer when the current administration uses this tool against sanctuary cities,” he wrote. “But they are likely to regret their enthusiasm if a liberal Democratic president uses the same tactic to force states to increase gun control, adopt a ‘common core’ curriculum or pursue liberal policies on transgender bathroom accommodations.”It is hard to say whether the state will prevail in its suit, as much depends on how, when and why the federal government denies funding. But there is little question that some denials can give rise to constitutional problems.In January, California won a major victory, persuading a judge to block the Trump administration’s efforts to shut down a program that shields some 700,000 young undocumented immigrants from deportation. The Supreme Court turned down a hail-Mary appeal from the administration in February, and the case will now make its way up the court system in the usual way.Mr. Trump ended the program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, last September, calling it an unconstitutional use of executive power by his predecessor and reviving the threat of deportation for immigrants who had been brought to the United States illegally as young children.But Judge William H. Alsup ordered the administration to maintain major pieces of the program while legal challenges move forward, notably by requiring the administration to allow people enrolled in it to renew their protected status. The administration has not sought a stay of that injunction.AdvertisementJudge Alsup ruled that the administration had abused its discretion and had acted arbitrarily and capriciously in rescinding the program. He acknowledged that presidents have broad powers to alter the policies of earlier administrations, but said the Trump administration’s justifications for rescinding the program did not withstand scrutiny.In a statement on Monday, Mr. Sessions expressed incredulity that the administration should not be able to rescind what he called “an unlawful policy intended to usurp Congress’s role in passing immigration laws.”The Ninth Circuit is set to hear arguments in the case in May, and the state’s chances of winning in that court are good. But the Supreme Court may well hear an appeal, and there the state could face headwinds.The next major court fight between California and the Trump administration may involve greenhouse gas emissions.The state has a waiver under the Clean Air Act that allows it to enforce stronger air pollution standards than those set by the federal government.Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, has said he is dissatisfied with that state of affairs.“California is not the arbiter of these issues,” he said in an interview with Bloomberg TV last month.On Monday, the agency took steps to challenge California’s waiver. Though the process may take some time, it is likely to produce another clash between the Trump administration and the state that has emerged as its most determined foe.California, Mr. Becerra said, is “ready to file suit.”Follow Adam Liptak on Twitter at @adamliptakA version of this article appears in print on April 6, 2018, on Page A18 of the New York edition with the headline: In One Battle After Another, It’s Trump v. California.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

Advertisement
Unbuttoned By                     
 VANESSA FRIEDMAN
 
APRIL 5, 2018
Since the shootings at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School and the March for Our Lives, the emergence of Emma González, a senior at the school, as a national face of gun control activism has drawn much attention for her role as a founder of #NeverAgain and for her views on social media strategy — and for her now famously shaven head.To many outside eyes, her hair (or lack of it) has become the symbol of her refusal to accept the status quo, her refusal to simply sit back and leave change to the establishment. So much so that The New Yorker recently published an article comparing her to Joan of Arc, as depicted in the 1928 film by Carl Theodor Dreyer: another young woman with a genius for inspiring leadership, a deeply felt belief system and “brutally close-cropped hair.”No matter that, as the essay’s author acknowledges, a few weeks before the shooting Ms. González had declared, on her school’s Instagram account, that “I decided to cut my hair because it was a pain in the neck, if you’ll forgive the pun. It was really hot all the time; it was very cumbersome and very heavy, leading to a lot of headaches. It was expensive to keep it up, and as prom time came around, I figured it would be cheaper to not have to worry about doing my hair.”Her original motivation has become shrouded in her advocacy, and in the eyes of the watching world, her head has taken on its own meaning, representative of our failure, of her renunciation. If, a few years ago, it seemed possible that with the advent of models like Ruth Bell and Kris Gottschalk, buzz cuts on women could be viewed as representations of “quirky beauty” and celebrated all over the East Village and beyond, the reaction to Ms. González’s hair has made it clear that we were deluded.Advertisement“I don’t think you can ever just shrug it off as a matter of personal expression,” said Erin K. Vearncombe, a lecturer at Princeton University who specializes in the cultural anthropology of dress. “Hair is intrinsically linked to assumptions about gender and power relations.” It has always been, from the myth of Medusa (whose hair was made of snakes, and whose glance could turn men to stone) through the travails of Hillary Clinton as first lady, when her many hairdos came to represent what her opponents saw as her slippery opportunism — and the new buzz cuts.A look from across The New York Times at the forces that shape the dress codes we share, with Vanessa Friedman as your personal shopper. Sent weekly.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Hair, in the eyes of the beholders — partly because it is so much in the eyes of the beholders — is, as it ever was, a political issue. It is, as the anthropologist Grant McCracken wrote in his book “Big Hair,” “our court of deliberation, the place where we contemplate who and what we are.” And while such contemplation ebbs and flows, it is, like everything else in this heightened political climate, once again central to the conversation. At least the visual one.AdvertisementEarlier this year, Rose McGowan’s shaven pate was displayed in high definition on the cover of “Brave,” her account in part of her experience with sexual harassment. Last month, Asia Kate Dillon and the shaved head returned to small screens (and promotional billboards) everywhere in “Billions,” and the first nonbinary gender character on American series television.Since the release of “Black Panther” in February, the bald heads of the Dora Milaje soldiers, led by Okoye (Danai Gurira), have become clarion calls of black female strength and beauty. And Adwoa Aboah, the Model of the Year at the British Fashion Awards in December, is known for not only her stubbled head but also her Gurls Talk platform and her advocacy on the part of young women’s mental health.In all cases, it is almost impossible to separate the image from the activism.Especially because those images exist in stark contrast to those of certain other women in the public eye, in particular the women associated with the Trump family, including the first lady, Melania Trump, and the former communications director Hope Hicks, whose long, lush locks represent what Mr. McCracken call “voluptuous hair” — hair in the Rita Hayworth-Cindy Crawford mode. It could be a coincidence, though it is also notable that some of the things the women who have shaved their heads stand for represent a group of values and cultural beliefs that the administration does not share: gun control, L.G.B.T.Q. rights.Hair is not solely a female issue, of course; men’s hair is also fraught (hello, Samson; hello, skinheads). Though as Dr. Vearncombe said, “because we focus so much attention on the head, especially on the female head, and because this attention is gendered, and because, more than anything, this attention is visible, absent hair on a woman’s head can be read as disruptive to the politics of the male gaze. Looking at a woman’s face, at her hair, has conventionally been an exercise of desire, and of an assertion of male power. Disrupting this convention, disrupting this gaze, allows us to see a different set of possibilities for the female head. The shaved head ‘speaks’ in a different way.”And what is says is multitudes. It can sometimes speak of punishment: After World War II, women in France who were accused of being collaborators had their heads shaved in public; Natalie Portman’s character in “V for Vendetta” had her head shaved during a torture scene. It can reflect discipline and toughness: See Demi Moore in “G.I. Jane” and Charlize Theron in “Mad Max: Fury Road.” It can represent instability: When Britney Spears had her breakdown in 2007, she shaved her head in an act that has practically become a synonym in the pop lexicon for unstable. And it can be a direct riposte to a certain set of social and cultural values and expectations.In an excerpt from her book published in i-D, Ms. McGowan wrote of shaving her head: “I broke up with you. The collective you, the societal you. I broke up with the Hollywood ideal, the one that I had a part in playing.” It was a way of rejecting, she wrote. “The ideal version of a woman that is sold to you by every actress in every hair commercial telling you, ‘this the secret to being beguiling, the secret to getting a man to want you.’”AdvertisementThis is hair as seen through the Freudian lens, wherein the whole head becomes a stand-in for sexuality. Ms. McGowan later went on to say that her hair made her feel like a blowup sex doll. And yet, by rejecting it, by shaving it, she did not escape it (none of us do); she simply transformed its messaging.As Geraldine Biddle-Perry, an Associate Lecturer at Central Saint Martins and the co-editor of “Hair: Styling, Culture and Fashion,” wrote in an email exchange, “For women who voluntarily cut/shave their hair, volition alters the symbolic grammar and so the act functions in terms of female agency and empowerment.”Which in turn raises the question of whether we are in for more head shaving, and whether that may ultimately lead to a time when, Dr. Vearncombe said, “we will not care about what a woman puts on or removes from her head.”It’s possible. Though given the history, gun control may have a better chance.A version of this article appears in print on April 5, 2018, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: Buzz Cuts: The Politics of (No) Hair.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »

Advertisement
Teenagers in The Times By                     
THE LEARNING NETWORK

APRIL 5, 2018
Here is the March edition of Teenagers in The Times, a roundup of the news and feature stories about young people that have recently appeared across sections of NYTimes.com. We publish a new edition on the first Friday of each month.As we did last month, we’ve listed the entries about the activism that has emerged after the Feb. 14 attack at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla, as a category of their own.For ideas about how to use Teenagers in The Times with your students, please see our lesson plan and special activity sheet, both of which can be used with this or any other edition._________March for Our Lives, Gun Reform, School Safety and Activism at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High SchoolBeyond Gun Control, Student Marchers Aim to Upend ElectionsWith hundreds of March for Our Lives demonstrations planned, high school students say this is a moment of political awakening for their generation.Advertisement‘We Are the Change’: Teenagers From Chicago’s South Side Stand With Parkland SurvivorsThis video features footage from the event.AdvertisementMarch for Our Lives Highlights: Students Protesting Guns Say ‘Enough Is Enough’'Hundreds of thousands of protesters, outraged by a recent school shooting, took to the streets in Washington and around the world, calling for action against gun violence.March for Our Lives: Maps of the More Than 800 Protests Around the WorldJust over a month after the Parkland mass school shooting, organizers have planned hundreds of demonstrations calling for stricter gun laws.In Gun Control Marches, Students Led but Adults Provided Key ResourcesThe March for Our Lives demonstrations were triumphs of organic, youthful grass-roots energy, and of sophisticated, experienced organizational muscle.‘Something About Parkland Has Been Different’: Survivors From 20 Years of Mass Shootings SpeakWe spoke to survivors of mass shootings and others affected by them about the demonstrations planned for Saturday, March 24.20 Years After the Shooting on the PlaygroundThe writer of this Opinion essay, a survivor of the 1998 attack at Westside Middle School in Jonesboro, Ark., in which four students and a teacher were fatally shot, says, “It was jarring to find a group of survivors — my former classmates — as divided as our country.”Advertisers Drop Laura Ingraham After She Taunts Parkland Survivor David HoggMs. Ingraham had apologized for mocking Mr. Hogg over his college rejections. “She only apologized after we went after her advertisers,” he said. “It kind of speaks for itself.”Support for Gun Control Seems Strong. But It May Be Softer Than It LooksThe new activists are hoping the old patterns of weak support will change.AdvertisementWhat the Dreamers Can Teach the Parkland Kids“From one activist to another: Trust your instincts, study your history and don’t read the comments,” says this Opinion essay writer.Thank a TeenagerThis Opinion writer states, “At times yesterday, the protesting students seemed to be everywhere — on social media, on television, in communities. And they offered a needed jolt of inspiration in a dark political time.”National School Walkout: Thousands Protest Against Gun Violence Across the U.S.In a coordinated action, students left their classrooms and sometimes marched in the streets a month after 17 people were killed in a Florida high school.We Stand With the Students“The nation’s adults must listen to the students walking out of their schools Wednesday to protest gun violence,” states this editorial.Letting Teenagers LiveThis Opinion essay writer says, “Motor vehicle crashes kill more young people than shootings, and the issue is less affected by politics.”Mr. Trump, Here’s a Teenage Hero; It’s Your Turn!“A 15-year-old stood up to the Parkland gunman, yet the president won’t stand up to the N.R.A.,” states this Opinion essay.Parkland Students Find Themselves Targets of Lies and Personal AttacksDavid Hogg is not an actor. He was indeed at school that day. Emma González did not tear up a copy of the Constitution.Why I Didn’t Join My School’s WalkoutThe writer of this Opinion essay states, “I am a high school junior, and I shoot guns and hunt. Many of the kids protesting guns right now don’t seem to know that much about them.”AdvertisementI Tried to Befriend Nikolas Cruz. He Still Killed My Friends“The notion that the Parkland shootings wouldn’t have occurred if students had been kinder is deeply dangerous,” writes a senior at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School who as an eighth grader had been assigned to tutor Mr. Cruz through the school’s peer counseling program.Brother of Nikolas Cruz Arrested on Trespassing Charge at Stoneman Douglas High SchoolSheriff’s deputies stopped Zachary Cruz on Monday afternoon after he rode a skateboard onto the school’s property, the authorities said. School officials had told him to stay away.After Parkland, Turning Trauma Into ChangeStudents who survived the attacks at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School discuss the psychological aftermath.7 Times in History When Students Turned to ActivismThe survivors of the Parkland, Fla., high school shooting have surprised many with their public activism. But they are hardly the first students to push the adult world for political change.Arming TeachersIn as many as a dozen states, schools have already taken advantage of laws that allow employees to carry guns. Ohio is one of them.Who Should Be Armed in Florida Schools? Not Teachers, Lawmakers Say. But Maybe Librarians.After a debate on the State Senate floor on Monday, Republican legislative leaders backed off on arming most teachers, but voted to allow others in schools to carry guns.Why We Should Lower the Voting Age to 16“Young people ought to have a say in how school shootings are best prevented,” states this Opinion essay writer.Power to the Parents“Give kids the franchise — but let their parents exercise it,” says the writer of this Opinion essay.AdvertisementSchool Officer: A Job With Many Roles and One Big ResponsibilitySchool resource officers like the one under scrutiny following the Florida shooting are expected to act as counselors and instructors as well as the first line of defense.Dear National Rifle Association: We Won’t Let You Win. From, Teenagers.“Our parents did not succeed in ensuring our safety at school. So we must do it ourselves,” write the New Jersey high school students who penned this Opinion essay.Art Show Inspired by Parkland Shooting Victims Is Extended“I had a lot of feelings I’ve never had before while painting,” Manuel Oliver, the father of a slain student, said.How the Parkland Students Got So Good at Social MediaThe activist students of Stoneman Douglas, where 17 people were killed last month, are social media naturals. But it’s not entirely true that they’ve been tweeting all their lives.How Young Is Too Young for Protest? A National Gun-Violence Walkout Tests SchoolsA coordinated protest on Wednesday at schools across the U.S. has administrators making special plans for students who may not be old enough to handle the subject.With Gun Control Nearing a Dead End, G.O.P. Turns to ‘School Safety’The House plans to vote on legislation to beef up security at the nation’s schools, but Democrats accused Republicans of diverting attention from guns.Maryland School Gunman Confronted by Officer Shot Himself, Authorities SayThe St. Mary’s County Sheriff’s Office said Austin Wyatt Rollins fatally shot himself in the head at the same time an officer fired at him.Girl Shot at Maryland School Dies After Being Taken Off Life SupportJaelynn Willey, 16, was shot at Great Mills High School on Tuesday. She died, “surrounded by her family.”Advertisement_________EducationWhat College Students Really Think About Free SpeechA new study finds that the vast majority of students strongly support free speech but struggle to balance it with their desire for inclusivity.The Ivy League Students Least Likely to Get MarriedAt Princeton, and in the American higher education system as a whole, there remains a strong correlation between marriage and economic class.The Growing College Graduation GapAccording to this Opinion essay writer, “More poor students are going to college than in the past. And yet the number who graduate is falling even further behind.”Yale Rape Verdict Shows How ‘Yes Means Yes’ Can Be Murkier in CourtThe acquittal in the case of Saifullah Khan showed how the consent standards that have been adopted at colleges may differ from those that prevail off campus.At Columbia, Revisiting the Revolutionary Students of 1968As the 50th anniversary of the 1968 student takeover approaches, the neglected story of African-American protesters is moving to the center of the story.It’s Hard to Be Hungry on Spring BreakAccording to this Opinion essay “as they admit more poor students, colleges need to do a better job of serving them.”Stop Asking About My Kid’s College Plans“Have you guys made your list yet?” everyone asks. I hate this question. “We” aren’t going to college; my daughter is,” states this Opinion essay writer.A Problem for High Schools: More Cars, and Nowhere to Park ThemIn wealthy Long Island communities, luxury cars have become a standard gift for teenagers. But most schools do not have the space to accommodate them.Understanding Student Mobbists“Younger generations have a different understanding of what’s wrong with society and how to fix it,” states this Opinion essay writer.AdvertisementBlack Kids Don’t Want to Read About Harriet Tubman All the TimeThis Opinion essay writer says, “They need to see themselves reflected in stories that celebrate everyday beauty.”College Republicans Propose an Unusual Idea From the Right: A Carbon TaxGOP strategists said the budding movement reflected a broader shift on social issues that, if it spread, could split the party along generational lines._________Civics, Politics, Economics and BusinessPatriotic Youth Army Takes Russian Kids Back to the FutureThe Youth Army, a recent Kremlin creation, is designed to imprint nationalist fervor, but critics doubt Russia needs a militaristic league for the young.Malala Yousafzai Returns to Pakistan for First Time Since AttackMs. Yousafzai, a Nobel laureate studying at Oxford, met with the prime minister and will visit a school she helped build near her native Swat Valley.Boko Haram Returns Dozens of Schoolgirls Kidnapped in NigeriaThe unexpected return of the girls may turn out to be a major propaganda coup for Boko Haram, although some girls are still missing, and the group warned the girls to never go back to school again.Boko Haram’s Seizure of 110 Girls Taunts Nigeria, and Its LeaderThe president has often declared the Islamist group defeated, so its latest mass abduction threatens to become a major issue in next year’s election.AdvertisementTrapped in Russian Mall Fire, Children Said Farewell by PhoneBlocked exits prevented people from escaping the blaze at a mall in Siberia, officials said. At least 64 people were killed, many of them children.‘Never Again’: Fighting Hate in a Changing Germany With Tours of Nazi CampsFerdous is from Afghanistan, Florentina from Kosovo and Damian from Berlin. A German high school class visited Sachsenhausen, where 50,000 are believed to have died during World War II.The Toys They Carried: Syrian Children Under SiegeChildren in the Damascus suburb of eastern Ghouta are finding ways to pass the time in cramped basement shelters. But they are not insulated from the war.The Orphans of China’s Economic MiracleThis Opinion essay states, ““Millions of migrants have left their children behind in the villages — sometimes to live with family members, sometimes to fend for themselves.”A Young Monk Finds Her CallingIn Japan, a girl turns to her Buddhist faith to help rebuild her village temple destroyed in the tsunami seven years ago.Income Mobility Charts for Girls, Asian-Americans and Other Groups. Or Make Your OwnWatch men and women of any race grow up in the United States.New York Forgets Its Juvenile LifersAccording to this Opinion essay, “A new lawsuit challenges the parole board’s routine denials, even to those who have served decades and pose little or no safety risk.”Why Are Black Students Punished So Often? Minnesota Confronts a National QuandaryThe Trump administration is highlighting the struggles that Minneapolis and St. Paul face with disparities in school discipline, and putting a thumb on the scale.AdvertisementAmericans Might No Longer Prefer Sons Over DaughtersNew evidence suggests a shift, possibly because of “a subtle fear of boys and the trouble they might bring.”_________Science, Health, Technology and SportsKarlie Kloss Teaches Teenage Girls How to CodeWhen she’s not jet-setting or hanging with Taylor Swift, the 25-year-old model runs a coding boot camp for young women.Are iPhones Bad for Kids?Two new books — Anya Kamenetz’s “The Art of Screen Time” and Naomi Schaefer Riley’s “Be the Parent, Please” — offer advice to anxious parents.Your Kid’s Phone Is Not Like a CigaretteThis Opinion writer states, “We can’t fight technology the way we fought Big Tobacco.”Take Your Daughter to the Movies, Not to Weight Watchers“Your 13-year-old does not need to count points” is one point raised in this Opinion essay.Are Today’s Teenagers Smarter and Better Than We Think?Childhood health experts have worried about kids raised on cellphones and social media. Student protests gave us a glimpse of the potential of Gen Z.In Sweden’s Preschools, Boys Learn to Dance and Girls Learn to YellThe state curriculum urges teachers to “counteract traditional gender roles,” and at one school, girls are encouraged to shout “No!” and boys run the play kitchen.Finding the Poetry in March MadnessThis Opinion essay writer says, “At Loyola, our poetry workshop was energized by our team’s win, not overshadowed by it.”At 15, Juggling Freshman Year and an International Squash CareerMarina Stefanoni of Darien, Conn., was the youngest player ever to compete in the Tournament of Champions. Having conquered junior events, she’s eyeing success in pro events while still in high school.AdvertisementClarkson, a Tiny Hockey Hotbed, Aims for Two N.C.A.A. TitlesThe women’s team won its second national championship in a row and third in five years. Now, the men take their turn.After Historic Victory, U.M.B.C. Students Look Forward to the Next … LabIt wasn’t exactly mass hysteria Saturday on the campus that wins chess championships the way Duke collects basketball ones. The model U.N. team is tough, too.I Go to Duke. Do I Have to Care About Basketball?This Opinion essay writer, a senior at Duke University, describes what happened before a basketball game started: “I am handed a tip sheet with instructions: “‘Yell "Woo" every time you jump,' and shout strategically mean things at the correct moments.”When College Basketball Teams Invade New York, an Empty Gym Is Hard to FindThe 25 men’s college basketball teams competing this week in the Big East and Atlantic Coast Conference tournaments all need places to practice.Suicides, Drug Addiction and High School FootballThe dire existence of young athletes in Madison, Ind.: “You just can’t believe this is all happening in one small community.”_________Arts, Media and CultureThe Prom-Like Intensity of High School FolklóricoIn the Central Valley in California, students gathered for an event celebrating a storied dance tradition steeped in Mexican culture.On Netflix, a Growing Wave of Shows for and About Teenagers“Alexa & Katie” and “On My Block” join a roster that includes “13 Reasons Why,” “Stranger Things” and “Everything Sucks.”AdvertisementWith ‘Rise,’ a ‘Friday Night Lights’ for Theater KidsNBC’s “Rise,” isn’t “Glee” and it isn’t “Fame.” “The mantra is to always keep it as realistic and honest as possible,” said its showrunner, Jason Katims.Does Gay Hollywood Have Room for Queer Kids?This Opinion essay writer states, “The unspoken rule of gay cinema and television: Masculine leads only.”Finding New Meaning in ‘Mean Girls’The movie is beloved. But it also pits girls against girls. How, then, do you make a stage musical that satisfies fans and meets our cultural moment?Opening Young Minds With the Arts When Schools Are ClosedHere’s a roundup of activities, from Muppet movies to zombie tag, at New York museums during the public school spring break._________We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementSupported byA collection of views, news and more from the Learning section.About five million K-12 students in the United States do not speak English fluently, and their numbers are growing fast. While these children currently make up 10 percent of the total student population, researchers estimate that they could make up as much as 40 percent by 2030.Schools across the country are turning to technology to help them better serve these students — whose success will increasingly drive graduation rates, test scores and other school-quality metrics — and to help connect with their families.“Any time there’s an opportunity to quickly connect with a parent and not have the language be in the way, that’s a win for me and for the student,” said Tasia Fields, a technology administrator and former teacher in Waukegan Public Schools in Illinois.ClassDojo is among the most widely used home-to-school communication apps, and its automatic translation feature has created a way for teachers to develop relationships with parents despite language barriers. Ms. Fields said the app enabled regular contact with all parents — to discuss grades or attendance issues, for example — not just those who speak English.In the classroom, computer-based programs can give students additional support as they work to master the vocabulary and mechanics of English. ELLoquence, Istation and PreK12Plaza are among those that let students move through lessons at their own pace. Many more schools serve immigrants now than ever before, and digital technology can offer effective ways to reach them. — Tara García Mathewson Many administrators at public schools say they are using strategies to “personalize” learning, giving students the chance to tackle coursework at their own pace or have a greater say in what they study. And some, like the Howard University Middle School of Mathematics and Science in Washington, have specifically turned to the method as a way to address inequity.With about half of the students considered at-risk and the same amount performing behind grade level in reading and math, said the principal, Kathryn Procope, the school had to find better ways to engage and motivate students. “We tend to look at education as teacher-driven,” Ms. Procope said. “We drive, and the students kind of sit in the back seat and ride along with us. But now students are really participating and directing how this actually goes.”CityBridge — a nonprofit focused on improving Washington’s public schools in part by giving students a voice in the reform conversation — is helping the school, which is on the Howard University campus. The middle school has started using an online system to guide self-paced learning, and Ms. Procope is going one step further, letting the students help redesign the class schedule. Her hope is that if the school day is organized around the needs of more students, students will be better set up for success.Damont Morgan, a seventh grader, would prefer to get core academic classes that take a lot of mental energy out of the way in the morning and go to electives in the afternoon. As part of a pilot, he is testing this, and Ms. Procope plans to change the schedule schoolwide next year. She also plans to carve out time for students to choose what to study.When Damont had this freedom, he spent extra time in his science class, catching up. Having input is important. “A lot of schools,” he said, “they don’t really listen to the students and what they want.”For CityBridge, student participation in school redesign is essential to dismantling many of the inequities that have made schools work for some students and not others. And that, these advocates say, is the real goal for personalized learning. — Tara García MathewsonWith more college students now considered nontraditional than traditional, higher education institutions have been scrambling to shift their models to better meet their needs. Many have turned to competency-based education, known as CBE, to reach the increasingly important returning adult learner.These students graduated from high school years ago and have work and life experiences that distinguish them from their young adult counterparts on campus. With competency-based education, they can earn credits for that.The idea is that students should not have to sit through lessons they have already learned. Once they prove their knowledge — competency — they can move on to new material.The model is popular with older learners who want to finish a degree as fast as possible, and online delivery means they can do it in evenings and weekends, or around their work and family commitments.In 2014, about 50 colleges had either announced or started CBE programs. In 2017, the education research firm Eduventures issued a report about 175 institutions with some level of CBE, even if just a course or two. Hundreds more say they are considering such programs.But competency-based education is hard to put into effect because it is so different from traditional higher education — in the way courses are designed, the way faculty members are expected to teach, how long courses take and how students should be charged.“The demand side is there,” said Howard Lurie, principal analyst at Eduventures. “The actual execution is limited.”At least so far. — Tara García MathewsonWe asked students to tell us what they think about arming teachers.“Teachers have it hard enough already. You’re giving them more stress, worrying about this.”“I would think everyone would want armed guards and police officers in school. I think it would do nothing but good.”“I understand the rationale behind having a resource officer. But it’s not my personal preference. School should be a resource, not something you have to survive.”﻿“The teacher’s job is to teach us, to be ready for the real world. We need to focus on that.”“We’re not going to stop these school shootings if we don’t have reactionary measures in place to stop the school shooters.”“Arming teachers is a completely half-baked and stupid idea. It’s a way for our politicians to dance around gun control.”— Interviews by Emily Cochrane. Illustrations by Kyle Hilton.BLENDED LEARNING Any instruction that blends the use of computers with human teachers.PERSONALIZED LEARNING An instructional model in which each student studies at his or her own pace, often aided by technology. The student may also have some choice in what to study, the order in which topics are studied or the learning method.STUDENT-CENTERED LEARNING Another term for personalized learning, but tending to emphasize the needs of individual students rather than the goals of the teacher, school or district.COMPETENCY-BASED LEARNING A method of instruction that requires students to master material (demonstrate competency) before moving on to the next topic or phase of instruction, instead of proceeding based on traditional unit or semester time frames.MASTERY-BASED LEARNING Another term for competency-based learning.PROFICIENCY-BASED LEARNING Another term for competency-based learning.VIRTUAL LEARNING/VIRTUAL SCHOOL Usually refers to a class or a school where all the content and process of learning are online.STANDARDS-BASED LEARNING Tying instruction to certain standards agreed upon as the goals for what students should know at various ages or grades in school (standards often set by the state). All 50 states have standards for their students to meet — most use, at least in part, the Common Core standards.COMMON CORE STATE STANDARDS Academic standards in English language arts and math, created by a national task force and based on the best state curriculums and input from experts. The process began in 2009 and Common Core, as it is known, has been adopted in 41 states and the District of Columbia.NAEP The National Assessment of Education Progress, a standardized test given periodically (every two years, in most subjects) that enables progress to be compared in all states on the same test.ASSESSMENTS Essentially another word for tests, but not necessarily old-fashioned tests. “Next generation” assessments include student portfolios, capstone projects or other work.MASTERY-BASED GRADING Also known as competency-based grading. A grading system that separates academic mastery from classroom behavior. Many schools give students two grades, one based on how well they mastered the content and another based on their attendance, class participation, homework completion and so on.OPEN EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES Educational materials that are free and openly licensed.— The Hechinger ReportAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS

AdvertisementBy ABBY ELLINAPRIL 5, 2018
The class was supposed to be temporary, a quick dive into the link between literature and anthropology. The professors had no idea if students would even come. It wasn’t mandatory, they wouldn’t get credit and it was taking place at night. Friday night.So no one was more surprised than Kara Wittman and Joanne Nucho when 24 people showed up for their “Essay as Resistance” class, which had its debut at Pomona College in March 2017 and ran for three 90-minute sessions. “We were shocked that it was so popular,” said Ms. Wittman, an assistant professor of English at Pomona, in Claremont, Calif., who taught the class with Ms. Nucho, an assistant professor of anthropology there.But that’s exactly the appeal of the so-called pop-up class, an experiential, interdisciplinary, extracurricular workshop that appears briefly and usually vanishes.Pop-up classes have grown in popularity over the last few years, with a number of colleges and universities offering them. They’re often related to current events. Bennington College’s “Am I Charlie?,” held in 2015, was a response to the attacks on the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo in France. “White Privilege” was offered last year at St. Michael’s College in Colchester, Vt., when Black Lives Matter gained traction on campus.“It was a time when our community on campus and nationally was divided around issues of race, and we wanted to give our students the opportunity to discuss some of these challenging topics,” said Kimoi Seale, assistant dean of students, who taught the “White Privilege” class.AdvertisementPop-ups have appeared in various incarnations for a while, but are often traced to Stanford University’s Hasso Plattner Institute of Design, commonly called the D.school, for seasoned instructors to try out new course content.AdvertisementMore recently, the D.school’s University Innovation Fellows program began to use pop-ups as tools for students to be more engaged in their own learning environments. The D.school’s pop-ups have since become “Pop Outs,” which have a narrower focus.Timothy Moore, 25, was a University Innovation fellow in 2015. After being introduced to the idea of pop-ups, he brought the concept back to James Madison University in Harrisonburg, Va., from which he graduated that year. The university’s X-Lab has since held pop-ups in everything from building ukuleles to ice-cream making using liquid nitrogen.Welcome to the new Learning section — a deep dive into the joys, excitement, challenges and opportunities in the world of education and learning. This is the first of four refreshed and redesigned sections we will publish this year.Drawing on the commitment to the subject and the expertise across The New York Times, we want Learning to be a place where educators, students and parents can join a vigorous conversation around the best ways to educate people, whether children or adults. (You can reach us at  learningsection@nytimes.com with comments and ideas.) - Jane Bornemeier, Editor“A lot of teachers don’t realize that the pop-up will make their curriculum stronger,” said Mr. Moore, who now works at Claremont College’s Hive, a program at the school that brings students together across disciplines to practice human-centered approached to real-world problems. “They’re a low-risk way to try out a class.”The beauty of the pop-up is that anything goes. Some classes last a few weeks; others run for a day or weekend. Some are faculty led; others are taught by students, administrators or even local businesspeople. Some are for credit; others are strictly for fun — or, at least, personal enlightenment. And sometimes the classes are so popular that they return as full-fledged, for-credit courses, which is what happened with the “Essay as Resistance” class.“Our goal here is to enhance the creative capacity of our students and teach them to navigate ambiguity, and to foster experimental learning,” said Fred Leichter, founding director of the Hive, officially the Rick and Susan Sontag Center for Collaborative Creativity. “The pop-ups are designed as a way to offer things that are often mash-ups between different disciplines. To me it’s one of the purest forms of learning. Both parties are there to create something together.”Here is a look at some pop-ups at schools around country.When fires ravaged Southern California last summer and major flooding followed soon after, Char Miller took notice. Mr. Miller, director of environmental analysis at Pomona College, has been teaching about fire for over two decades. “But the particular dynamic between fires and flood, which was so horrifying this winter — we have this incredible opportunity to show students on the ground what that actually means,” he said. “It’s a way for students to understand that they live in a particular place and that the natural systems here function differently than from wherever they come.” To be taught this fall by Mr. Miller and Jeff Groves, an English professor at Harvey Mudd College.Last year, Margaret Hagan, director of the Legal Design Lab at Stanford and a lecturer at the Hasso Plattner Institute of Design, taught “Design for Justice: Traffic,” which focused on navigating the traffic court system.AdvertisementThe next subject, in a class running this month and next: eviction. “Most of the people who get evicted don’t take any steps to fight their notices in court. That means there’s more eviction notices because it’s easier for landlords to use the court system without opposition,” she said. “If we can inform people of their rights in responding to an eviction notice, we might get more protection to them. To use the process. So the class is a lab — where my students, legal aid and the court — help them think through what interventions they can send out to encourage people to take action.”Antonia Messuri, the assistant dean for academics at St. Michael’s in Colchester, Vt., regularly counsels students who are stuck in their lives. “Often our students are coming from a place of being told what to do, how to do it and when it’s due their whole lives,” she said. This class, which runs through April, “is an opportunity for them to say, ‘This is my life, my education.’ ” Students will read articles on self-determination and Buddhist writings, with a focus on meditation, resilience and grit.The bulk of the pop-ups at James Madison are designed to be a mix of science and technology. In this class, on April 20, students learn the basic rules for safe flying, practice flight controls and then test their skills by flying through something they can relate to: a Quidditch course. “It’s designed to expose them to lightweight drones and the opportunity to take the full drone class where they learn how to use drones to solve real-world problems,” said Nick Swayne, founding director of the university’s X-Lab. “We will also have small model rockets available for students to try. These rockets are used extensively by our geology department to increase student interest in atmospheric studies.”Since the spring of 2015, Bennington College in Bennington, Vt., has been offering pop-up courses. In this course, taught by State Senator Brian Campion, who is also the director of public policy programs in the Center for the Advancement of Public Action, students will explore gun culture, gun policy, the continuing work of policymakers at the state’s Capitol, and whether or not such actions are likely to be the most effective to keep citizens safe. The course, which runs through April, will bring in guests with different perspectives.An earlier version of this article misspelled the city in which James Madison University is located. It is Harrisonburg, Va., not Harrisburg.A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2018, on Page F6 of the New York edition with the headline: Pop-Up Classes On Hot Topics.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

