AdvertisementBy THE NEW YORK TIMESMARCH 30, 2018
Adam Liptak, who covers the Supreme Court for The New York Times, explains what he calls “the most cryptic part of the United States Constitution.”The gun-control debate is one of the most contentious in American politics, pitting proponents of regulation against gun-rights advocates. Behind all of this is the Second Amendment.“It’s only 27 words long,” said Adam Liptak, who covers the Supreme Court for The New York Times. “But it is probably the most cryptic part of the United States Constitution.”This video explainer breaks down those 27 words, teases out the two clauses that judges and scholars examine and looks at how the amendment is interpreted today.In this video:• Mr. Liptak has covered the Supreme Court for 10 years. Before that, he was a national legal correspondent, covering the law more generally. He joined The Times after practicing law for 14 years.AdvertisementBackground reading and watching:• Trump Says Second Amendment ‘Will Never Be Repealed’• Demonstrators Who Brought Guns and an Opposing Message: ‘Shoot Back’• Trump’s Evolving Positions on Gun Issues• Once Again, Push for Gun Control Collides With Political RealityAdvertisement• 6 Stories and Charts to Help You Better Understand Gun Violence in the U.S.From the opinion pages: • John Paul Stevens, a retired Supreme Court justice, writes, Repeal the Second AmendmentWe’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

Who Was the YouTube Shooter?The Story Behind Japan’s Bathing MonkeysAnatomy of a Scene | ‘Blockers’How Dr. King Changed a Sanitation Worker’s LifeFootage Released of Man Shot by Police in BrooklynTrump Speaks About Stormy Daniels ScandalPrison Guards Nowhere to Be Seen in AttackBaffled by Bitcoin? How Cryptocurrency WorksN.F.L. Cheerleaders and the Gender GapThe Caravan That Provoked Trump

AdvertisementSupported byBy Timothy EganPope Francis opened the holiest week of the Christian calendar with an admonition to the generation that will own the 21st century. “Dear young people, you have it in you to shout,” he said in his homily. “It is up to you not to keep quiet.”Other voices were more censorious. On “Fox & Friends,” which provides President Trump with steady ration of half-truths and hatreds to fill an empty head and an empty schedule, a co-host had some advice for younger citizens just now learning how to use the wings of democracy.“These 17-year-olds should go back to civics class,” said Pete Hegseth, scowling at the March for Our Lives demonstrators.Actually, civics class has come to them, in the form of a hail of bullets from a weapon of war that is legal because of a broken political system. They’ve been forced, by triage, to learn how to use the tools of democracy that were largely denied them by passive educators.It’s no secret that in the rush to produce adults who are adept at applying science and technology to modern life, we left them ill-trained in the basic duties of citizenship. Nearly a third of Americans cannot name a single branch of government, and almost 40 percent are unable to cite a right guaranteed by the First Amendment.But it’s not the kids who are the doofuses. “There’s a big difference between being ignorant and being stupid,” said Sonia Sotomayor, associate justice of the Supreme Court. She’s been touring the country — 38 states so far — promoting civic competence among the young, a virtue that used to be a bedrock part of American education.“No one is born a citizen,” she said during a stopover in Seattle. “You have to be taught what that means.”The teaching, for a generation that has come of age since the 1999 Columbine massacre, for the 187,000 students who have experienced a shooting on campus during school since then, has been largely do-it-yourself. Only a handful of states require proficiency in civics and government as a condition of graduation. The educational system, with its fear of confrontational topics and its corporate-driven emphasis on STEM, has failed them.But one of the great surprises of the Trump era is the renaissance of civic engagement — at a level of urgency not seen in half a century. It’s a reaction to severe stress on democracy; Trump is both the cause, and leading symptom, of that stress.The awakening started with the revulsion of women — at a president who is credibly accused of sleeping with porn stars while his wife nursed their newborn child and who bragged of sexual assault, and at his daily slights to truth, dignity and other values that mothers teach their children.And now it’s the young’s turn. Critical thinking has arrived at a critical time. They’re not afraid of trolls; they grew up with snark from a screen. So after Laura Ingraham at Fox taunted a Parkland shooting survivor for not getting into his college of choice, the student immediately tweeted out a list of her advertisers. When they threatened to bail, she apologized.“These self-righteous kids screaming at you on television over the weekend aren’t helping out at all,” said Tucker Carlson, another Fox scold. As he knows, they are helping — but just not his side. “First we march, then we vote,” was a leading slogan of the demonstrations.The problem is that Americans are among the least-active voters in developed countries — another consequence, I would argue, of not teaching the manual of democracy in school. And young people are the least likely to vote.“Adults mess up a lot,” Sotomayor told the high school kids in her audience in Seattle. “We don’t have all the answers. We need you to come up with fresher and better ideas.”So today, these young people wonder why even the most obvious legislation, universal background checks on all gun purchases, can’t pass in Congress despite support from 90 percent of the public. They learn quickly that it’s because a single lobby owns the politicians. The obvious solution, which jaded political minds often forget, is to vote the bums out. It’s not complicated.And again, it shouldn’t be a D.I.Y. thing. Let’s teach people how to tell fake news from real news. They do this in Italy, and many universities in the United States have taken it up as well. It should be, like learning road signs before you can get a driver’s license, one of the courses that everyone takes before getting out of high school.Democracies die when citizens feel powerless. The biggest stress test will come if Trump fires the special counsel Robert Mueller. Then, all the people new to the process will see what a constitutional crisis looks like. But thanks to recent, real-life lessons, they’ll recognize it for what it is. And they won’t feel powerless to do something about it.I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@nytegan).Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS

AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 4:15 P.M. E.D.T.
PARKLAND, Fla. —  Multiple online sites have wrongly claimed Florida school shooting survivor and gun-control activist David Hogg was not on campus during the mass shooting.The erroneous information was based on a video to promote a CBS documentary on the student activists of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland. The 8-minute video showed Hogg saying that on Feb. 14, he rode his bike 3 miles from his home to school, taking a camera with him. Stories shared on social media said that meant Hogg changed his story from an earlier account of being at school during the shooting, although some sites followed up with posts noting their misinterpretation.Hogg huddled with other students during the shooting, using his cellphone to record those around him. Ashley Kurth, a culinary arts teacher, said she taught Hogg when he was a freshman. When the shooting erupted, Kurth sheltered students who had been outside her classroom."I physically grabbed David by the arm and pulled him into my room," she said. "It is extremely frustrating the kind of information that is being put out there."In an interview with Vox published Feb. 20, Hogg specified the time of his bike ride: 6 p.m., after the shooting.___This is part of The Associated Press' ongoing effort to fact-check misinformation that is shared widely online, including work with Facebook to identify and reduce the circulation of false stories on the platform.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy JESSE McKINLEY and VIVIAN WANGMARCH 30, 2018
ALBANY — Just a day before the deadline for a new multibillion-dollar spending plan, negotiations over the final pieces of the New York State budget slowed to a crawl on Friday, as Democrats in the Assembly effectively blamed a Brooklyn senator for holding up talks over a provision that would ease state oversight of religious schools.The senator, Simcha Felder, is a key player in the fractured Senate, representing the decisive vote in Albany’s 63-seat upper chamber, which is ruled by Republicans. Mr. Felder, a Democrat who has nonetheless declared no party loyalty, caucuses with the Republicans, giving them the majority.Mr. Felder — an Orthodox Jew who represents a large Orthodox Jewish constituency in Brooklyn — has expressed support in the past for allowing yeshivas leeway in complying with state law, which requires that private schools must offer students instruction that is “at least substantially equivalent” to that offered in public schools.And while the exact contours of Mr. Felder’s demands are not clear, Carl E. Heastie, the Democratic speaker of the New York State Assembly, suggested on Friday that the budget was “99.9 percent” done and that the remaining issue, touted by Mr. Felder, “should be worked on in partnership with stakeholders and educational experts at the state Education Department, which we would fully support.”Advertisement“It’s an important issue,’’ Mr. Heastie said. “We want to make sure we’re being culturally sensitive.’’ But, he added, “this issue should not be the reason that there’s a potential government shutdown,” which might occur if a budget were not adopted by Sunday.AdvertisementBy late Friday afternoon, however, word of a possible compromise was circulating in the Capitol, and Mr. Felder — who had left Albany to observe Passover in Brooklyn — said that he understood there to be a deal. Under it, he said, educational officials trying to evaluate standards at yeshivas would be asked to consider the number of hours spent studying all topics, including religious studies, in determining whether such an education was “substantially equivalent” to secular public schools.“The intent was not to go ahead and let yeshivas off the hook,” Mr. Felder said, but rather to “consider the number of hours of education a child is getting of any sort.”Still, it was not immediately clear if the Assembly — dominated by Democrats from New York City — would agree to such an arrangement, even as lawmakers and staff eagerly awaiting an end to a long workweek. Negotiations had been running well into the night most days, with only a few bills being debated, and passed in the wee hours of the morning — an unfortunate tradition in Albany, where virtually nothing seems to happen until it absolutely has to.In the Senate, a string of Democrats introduced hostile amendments, trying to force a vote on issues — like gun control and early voting — that had fallen out of budget negotiations in recent days, and their remarks mixed anger over the lack of action with wisecracks about the late hour.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“It’s now about 12:25,” said state Senator Gustavo Rivera, a Democrat from the Bronx, on Friday. “For the seven folks that are watching, hello.”For all the frustration surrounding the final stages of talks, there was still important legislation being passed, including a new sexual harassment policy and billions in funding for agencies. The State Senate was set to take up several more bills on Friday night, as expectation of a deal grew.Regardless of budget negotiations, Mr. Felder’s position as a fulcrum between Democratic and Republican interests is likely to intensify in the coming weeks. On April 24, two special elections are expected to give Democrats a numeric majority in the Senate, though Mr. Felder’s defection would allow Republicans to continue to rule. The Republicans in the chamber are also aided by an eight-member group of breakaway Democrats — the Independent Democratic Conference — who work with the G.O.P. and give them an extra buffer against some legislation they dislike, a list that this year includes early voting, gun control and any new taxes.On Friday afternoon, with the beginning of Passover looming and Easter in the offing, some members began to slip away as leaders sought to make accommodations for religious observances.AdvertisementA budget deal would likely be welcomed by Mr. Cuomo, a second-term Democrat seeking re-election in the fall, who has made much of his reputation of being an efficient steward of an often-dysfunctional state government. His budget was nine days late last year and is now in danger of being late again.Mr. Cuomo’s office had no comment on the status of the negotiations. The governor has been largely unseen since Sunday, though he made a brief appearance on Wednesday, when a reporter was arrested in the Capitol and Mr. Cuomo intervened.At the time, the governor said he was “cautiously optimistic” — a phrase commonly used, if not always believed, in Albany — and cautioned that the business of making budgetary sausage was almost always messy. “Until we have a total agreement,” Mr. Cuomo said, “Anything is possible.”Kate Taylor contributed reporting from New York.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 6:08 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Vermont lawmakers gave final legislative approval on Friday to a bill that raises the legal age for buying firearms and expands background checks, becoming the latest state poised to tighten gun restrictions after last month's Florida school massacre.The Democrat-controlled state Senate approved the measure, S55, in a 17-13 vote, according to the online legislative record. The bill passed the state House of Representatives this week.The measure now goes to Republican Governor Phil Scott, who has shifted his stance and voiced support for some gun controls after the arrest in February of a Vermont teenager accused of threatening to shoot up a high school. The incident came two days after a former student killed 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, on Feb. 14.Scott's support for gun controls marked a sharp switch for a governor with a 93 percent approval rating from the National Rifle Association (NRA) gun rights advocacy group in an otherwise politically liberal state with a reputation as a pro-gun stronghold.AdvertisementVermont, a largely rural New England state with a passion for hunting, is one of two dozen states where efforts to curb gun violence have gained momentum since the Feb. 14 shooting rampage that killed 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida.AdvertisementThe Vermont bill raises the age for gun purchases to 21 and expands background checks for private gun sales. It also bans magazines of more than 10 rounds for long guns and 15 rounds for pistols as well as rapid-fire devices known as bump stocks.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Vermont Public Radio reported that the Senate would take up two more gun-related measures next week. Both are aimed at removing guns from homes in cases of domestic violence or when someone is at risk of imminent harm from firearms, it said.Gun control advocates say the turnaround in Vermont and other states has been propelled in part by the groundswell of student-led lobbying efforts and protests calling for firearms restrictions.After the Parkland massacre, Florida's Republican-controlled legislature swiftly passed a bill that raised the age requirement and set a three-day waiting period for gun purchases and allowed the arming of some school personnel. The measure was  signed into law by another Republican with strong NRA credentials, Governor Rick Scott.(Reporting by Ian Simpson in Washington; Editing by Susan Thomas)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 5:33 P.M. E.D.T.
MONTPELIER, Vt. —  A package of gun restrictions is on track to become law in Vermont after the state Senate on Friday approved raising the legal age for gun purchases, expanding background checks for private gun sales and banning high-capacity magazines and rapid-fire devices known as bump stocks.The measure, which the House approved this week and Republican Gov. Phil Scott has said he will sign, reflects a remarkable turnaround for a state that has long opposed gun control measures.Scott acknowledged that many Vermonters would be disappointed by the vote and by his support for provisions that he opposed as recently as two months ago."I share it. I know why they are disappointed," Scott said. "But I think at the end of the day, they'll soon learn that what we have proposed, what's being passed at this time, doesn't intrude upon the Second Amendment. It doesn't take away guns, and I believe that we will get accustomed to the new normal, which is trying to address this underlying violence that we are seeing across the nation."AdvertisementThe turning point in this state came one day after the school shooting in Parkland, Florida, that killed 17 people: A Vermont teenager was arrested on charges he was planning a shooting at the Fair Haven Union High School, which he once attended. Vermont police said tragedy was averted only because a friend of the teenager alerted authorities.AdvertisementIn one day, Scott, who had previously said he did not favor any gun restrictions, changed his mind and urged lawmakers to act.About 2,500 students and supporters rallied in front of the Vermont Statehouse last weekend as part of the national "March for our Lives" movement. But for the past several weeks, gun-rights supporters, many wearing hunter orange vests or hats, have filled the halls of the Statehouse showing their opposition to gun restrictions.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The 17-13 Senate vote on Friday came after an emotional debate in which lawmakers from the largely rural state spoke of the centuries-old traditions that allow people who live far from the nearest police station to keep weapons as a means of self-defense. Others countered that the modern reality of mass shootings demanded change.Democratic Sen. John Rodgers, of Glover, an area known as Vermont's Northeast Kingdom, argued for a version of the bill with fewer restrictions on guns."The soil of the Kingdom is in my blood and a fair amount of my blood is in that soil," he said. "And because of the way I grew up, I feel dedicated to protecting that area."But Democratic and Progressive Sen. Philip Baruth, from Burlington, said the violence and mass shootings require change."Our attitudes are changing," he said. "And they are changing for a very, very good reason."We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 5:42 P.M. E.D.T.
A roundup of some of the most popular but completely untrue headlines of the week. None of these stories is legit, even though they were shared widely on social media. The Associated Press checked these out; here are the real facts:___NOT REAL: Autopsy Results From Vince Foster's Exhumed Body-Cause Of Death To Be Changed!THE FACTS: U.S. Navy doctors haven't found evidence former White House deputy counsel Vince Foster was the victim of a homicide. A story on the usapoliticstoday site claimed the body of Foster, who worked in the Clinton White House until he killed himself in 1993, had recently undergone an autopsy at "the Naval Hospital in Norfolk, Virginia." There is no naval hospital in Norfolk. The Navy said in a statement that its closest hospital, Naval Medical Center Portsmouth, "has verified that an autopsy was not performed on Mr. Vince Foster at their facility."___NOT REAL: Muslim nurses refuse to wash hands before operations, the reason why is insaneTHE FACTS: Muslim nurses in Britain must scrub up before caring for patients, although those with concerns about modesty under Islamic law can then don disposable over-sleeves to keep their arms covered. A story on the site vtamedia falsely claimed the nurses could use religious reasons to skip hand-washing. British health care guidelines were updated in consultation with "Islamic scholars and chaplains" in 2010 to accommodate religious dress.___NOT REAL: 22 Clinton Foundation Employees Arrested On First Day Of New InvestigationTHE FACTS: An investigation into whether the Clinton Foundation accepted donations in exchange for political favors while Hillary Clinton was secretary of state did not result in 22 arrests on its first day. The satire site ladiesofliberty published the article claiming people were charged with drug trafficking, money laundering and perjury. Other conservative websites have since run stories with identical wording. While the article cites U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions, he has made no such announcement. A spokesman for the Clinton Foundation said the arrests didn't happen.___NOT REAL: Busted: Soros Paid March For Our Lives Protestors $300 EachTHE FACTS: An online classified advertisement seeking merchandise sellers for a March for Our Lives in Los Angeles does not mean that liberal billionaire philanthropist George Soros and his foundations paid protesters $300 each to rally at the main event in Washington. The Tea Party Commander Center story included an image of the ad for the March 24 event in Los Angeles. Laura Silber, spokeswoman for Soros' Open Society Foundations, said neither Soros nor the foundations paid protesters. Students organized the rallies in support of increased gun control after a Feb. 14 shooting that killed 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida.Advertisement___NOT REAL: Cocaine Found in Coors Light NationwideTHE FACTS: The U.S. Food and Drug Administration hasn't found "thousands" of instances of Coors beer contaminated with cocaine. An article that originated in 2014 on the site huzlers continues to be shared on social media, claiming people reported feeling "weird, high and even sick" after drinking the beer. FDA spokesman Peter Cassell says the story isn't true. He said there is no one at the FDA with the name of the person the information is attributed to, and the primary federal regulatory authority for alcohol is not the FDA but the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, which is part of the Treasury Department.___This is part of The Associated Press' ongoing effort to fact-check misinformation that is shared widely online, including work with Facebook to identify and reduce the circulation of false stories on the platform.Advertisement___Find all AP Fact Checks here: https://www.apnews.com/tag/APFactCheck___We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 1:12 P.M. E.D.T.
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. —  An attack on 18-year-old Cuban-American and Parkland activist Emma González for not speaking Spanish by an Iowa Republican congressman's campaign staff highlights the pressures U.S.-born Latinos face on language."This is how you look when you claim Cuban heritage yet don't speak Spanish and ignore the fact that your ancestors fled the island when the dictatorship turned Cuba into a prison camp, after removing all weapons from its citizens; hence their right to self defense," read a meme with Gonzalez's photo that was posted on Rep. Steve King's campaign Facebook page.After facing criticism for attacking the teenager, King's campaign team deleted the post.The use of Spanish by U.S. Hispanics has long been a hot political topic. But rarely has a Republican, who has advocated for harsh immigration restrictions, criticized a Latino for not speaking Spanish well. Usually, politicians complain about the proliferation of Spanish in the public sphere and what it means about spikes in immigration.Here's a look at how the use of Spanish language has played a role in defining U.S.-born Latinos:THE ENCOUNTERWhite Southerners fought along bilingual Tejanos at the Alamo during the Texas revolution. But after Texas declared its independence in 1836, Mexican Americans began facing discrimination there, and officials began conducting business in English only.AdvertisementAs the U.S. gained territories in the Southwest that formerly belonged to Mexico, white land speculators illegally seized land owned by Mexican Americans despite guarantees outlined in the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo that ended the U.S.-Mexican War.AdvertisementCourt proceedings were conducted in English, creating more barriers for Latinos to dispute land grabs and discrimination. Poor, segregated schools also prevented Mexican-American children from obtaining strong English literacy for generations.PHYSICAL ABUSETo halt Latino children from speaking Spanish in school, teachers and principals throughout the Southwest physically punished them for using Spanish.In Los Angeles as late as 1968, high school students were paddled for blurting out Spanish phrases. Bobby Lee Verdugo, 67, remembers being paddled often in front of classmates for speaking Spanish."He tried to make a joke about it when it happened," said Yoli Rios, 67, a classmate who later became his wife. "But I know it was painful."The treatment prompted Verdugo to join the 1968 Los Angeles walkouts that forced the schools to end punishment for speaking Spanish and later introduced bilingual education classes. Students also staged walkouts in Houston.Irene Vasquez, chair of Chicana and Chicano Studies Department at the University of New Mexico, says that activism gave rise to the "English-only" movement in several states.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The conflict over Spanish was evident in Marfa, Texas, during filming of the 1956 movie "Giant," which was directed by George Stevens and starred Liz Taylor and James Dean. Although the movie was about the racism Mexican Americans face, the children who were cast as extras were prevented from speaking Spanish at their real-life segregated school.The teachers made students write Spanish words on paper, placed those papers in a box and buried "Mr. Spanish" in a symbolic funeral in front of Marfa's Blackwell School, according to the 2015 PBS Voces documentary "Children of Giant."AdvertisementIN POLITICSDuring the 1960 presidential election, Jacqueline Kennedy recorded what is believed to be the first Spanish-language television ad targeting U.S. Latinos. She urged Hispanics to vote for her husband, Sen. John F. Kennedy, for president. Viva Kennedy! clubs sprang up throughout the Southwest and helped give Kennedy a tiny edge to defeat Richard Nixon.Since then, there have been prominent Spanish-language ads targeting Latino voters. Texas Republican Sen. John Tower, for example, used a Spanish ballad in a TV ad to win a close re-election by capturing 37 percent of the Hispanic vote.George H.W. Bush featured his Spanish-speaking daughter-in-law in a television commercial during his successful 1988 presidential campaign. Former President George W. Bush used Tejano singer Emilio Navaira in his bid for re-election as Texas governor, and later, spoke Spanish on the campaign trail during his 2000 presidential race.TRENDSMore than 37 million Latinos in the U.S. speak Spanish at home. But recent studies show that the percentage of Hispanics who speak Spanish at home has declined over the last decade.The Pew Research Center found that the percentage dropped from 78 percent to 73 percent.According to Pew, some 89 percent of Hispanic children and 94 percent of Latino Millennials who are born on the U.S. mainland speak English proficiently.When Emma González spoke at the "March for Our Lives" rally Saturday, she galvanized the crowd and television audiences with a speech about gun control, in English. Univision reports she does not speak Spanish.___We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »

Advertisement

      By CHRIS STANFORD and 
    
ANNA SCHAVERIEN

MARCH 30, 2018

Did you stay up to date this week? To take the quiz, click on an answer, and the correct response will be revealed after you choose.


Last week, the question about the death of Sudan, the last male northern white rhinoceros, had the highest share of correct answers, with 93 percent. The question about Major League Baseball’s plans to play in London was the toughest; only 34 percent responded correctly. Click here for other weeks’ quizzes.
The U.S. joined a campaign by two dozen countries on Monday to retaliate for the poisoning of a Russian former spy in Britain.As part of that effort, President Trump ordered the expulsion of 60 Russian officials from the U.S. as well as the closing of the Russian Consulate in which city?BostonMiamiSan FranciscoSeattleCrowds gathered last Saturday in cities across the U.S. and around the world to join student activists in protests against gun violence.After a mass shooting at a high school in Florida in February, the students hoped to elevate gun control as a key issue for the midterm elections.The title of the event encouraged participants to march for what?Our BeliefsOur FutureOur LivesOur RightsOur VotesNorth Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, made a surprise trip to China this week to meet with President Xi Jinping, the first known time that Mr. Kim traveled outside North Korea since taking power in 2011.The trip was reported by the state news media in China and North Korea only after Mr. Kim had left, but his presence in Beijing had been rumored after what telltale sign?The Chinese Air Force put on a special display Fanfare was heard outside the National People’s CongressMr. Xi announced a national holiday A bulletproof train arrived at Beijing’s central train stationThe U.S. Commerce Department announced on Monday that the 2020 census would include a question asking about what?Citizenship statusPhysical disabilitiesSexual preferenceSocial media useChristopher Wylie, above, testified before British lawmakers this week. For which organization did he work until 2014?Cambridge AnalyticaFacebookF.B.I.UberA fire in the Siberian city of Kemerovo killed at least 64 people on Sunday, many of them children. Where did the fire occur? In an apartment blockIn a schoolIn a shopping mallIn a theme parkA TV interview with the pornographic film actress Stephanie Clifford about her alleged affair with Donald  Trump drew 22 million viewers on Sunday night. The interview appeared on which news program? “20/20”“60 Minutes”“Dateline”“Inside Edition”Municipal employees were able to use computers again on Tuesday after a sustained cyberattack against which American city?AtlantaCharlotte, N.C.MinneapolisPittsburghWhich dating app announced this week that it would change its software to encourage millions of its users to get frequent H.I.V. tests? BumbleGrindrHappnTinderThe sitcom “Roseanne” returned to ABC this week after a 21-year absence.The show got off to an enormously strong ratings start. About how many viewers watched on Tuesday?8 million18 million28 million38 millionThere was a cheating scandal in the world of cricket this week, with the revelation of a plan to tamper with a ball during an international series of matches.The captain of the national team for which country acknowledged concocting the plan?AustraliaEnglandIndiaSouth AfricaAdvertisement

